Southern NB is extremely affordable and relatively underrated by locals. You can still make a decent living out here doing basic jobs like retail/call-centre/serving/etc. Lots of young entrepreneurs and solid career paths too if you are willing to put in the work.

It's not perfect by any means, but with rents as low as $600 utilities included, and a job market that is desperate for motivated employees, it can be a pretty great place to be. A lot of locals complain about there being no jobs, but in my experience it's more that there are no jobs they want to do and a lot of jobs that don't want to hire them. There's also a strong vocal minority of complainers on local social medias. I have a lot of local friends who complain about the job market, but then turn around and stop going to their new job because they are bored and would prefer to watch Netflix...

If you're a driven individual, you can make a decent life out here. For example, one of my buddies has a bomb career in insurance. He got into it with only a high-school diploma and some basic computer skills. It's a job many people don't even know exists. There's also a lot of good call-center work out here. If you can save up to go to university/college, there's also a lot of good work in IT here too. It's not the most prestigious work or the most prestigious part of the country, but you can make a pretty sweet life out here on a reasonable income.

In terms of the "not perfect by any means", some fair warnings. Our population is tiny compared to Ontario so the job market is also tiny. Things move slow and there isn't as much selection as other places. That doesn't mean there isn't jobs, it's just that our job market is sizes relative to our tiny province. Most people advise finding a job before moving here or be willing to take an in-between job while you search for work. Our local governments are also basically a write-off. Irving and other major corporations basically fund the two main provincial parties so they get away with anything. We flip flop between them and get nowhere on fixing real issues. Money gets burnt every time we flip-flop. All our media outlets are also owned by Irving. You may end up working for them too because they employ a lot of the province. Our population is also aging because most young successful people bail and move away to larger salaries and more prestigious communities. We also get a lot of moving out to retire here and take advantage of the low cost of living. This means more tax for working people here. 15% sales tax, laughably high property tax, high income tax. We also have a sever lack of family doctors because the province has an outdated and corrupt policy on practices. Every 4 years all 4 parties promise to fix it, and then they never do. It's finally getting better as old doctors retire freeing up practicing licenses, but we're still in a huge hole with a years long wait-list. Expect to not have a family doctor for like half a decade. Oh, also every government is broke out here, despite the high taxes and massively profitable industries. Municipalities try their best, but industry pollution, the rich moving beyond city limits to dodge taxes, and brutal Winter damage really impact things. The industries get massive tax cuts and the working population is too small to support the infrastructure repairs and medical needs of the old population. It's dodgey, but somehow things keep trucking along for decades in this state. As an individual, it doesn't impact you too much, but it's worth being aware of before settling down here.

Oh and don't buy/rent near rivers. They've been flooding a lot lately.
I'm living in Edmonton, Alberta. You could find a place near the University here pretty easily. Like in Mckernan/Belgravia area. 

Especially Mckernan/Belgravia (I don't know the difference actually), because the LRT is right there on 111 st, as well as being within walking distance of the University. 

I'm not sure if the cost of living is lower than it is in Ontario here, but $600 for a room in a shared house is usual. You could find cheaper, but they're *cheaper*. 

You can easily spend ~$200 a month on groceries. 

Cheapest network in the area is Freedom mobile, I pay $40 for pretty much unlimited data (it's throttled after a certain point).

I pay $30 for 2mb/s dl from TekSavvy.

You would want to move closer to the places you'll be all the time because transit isn't the greatest in this city. A mixture of poor planning and ridership not being quite enough to necessitate more service.

Also 5% tax, lowest tax anywhere I think. 

If you've never owned a car before, I think you'd be seen as a new driver by insurance companies so be prepared to pay ~$200 a month for insurance if you decide to get a car.
I kinda disagree. Saskatchewan (particularly Saskatoon) is the perfect place to be. Reasons:

1) Graduate retention program enables OP to receive up to $20,000 in tax credits if the works in SK after graduating. Also, that home buyers credit for first time home buyers (I think it was 20,000$)
2) cheaper car insurance and cell phone plans 
3) easy access to Calgary and Edmonton (5-6 hours drive away from Saskatoon) and they have *some* opportunities too (yea, I know the economy sucks there right now but it doesn’t change the fact they are one of the biggest cities after TOR/VAN in Canada)
4) Smaller population in SK, so less crowds to deal with. (I personally not a fan of large populated areas)

I can’t think of anything else right now but there are a lot more.
Not nearly as bad as people think. I find food is pretty average, not as cheap as ontario (at least that's what I'm told) but it's cheaper than NL. Gas is like 1.25/L. My car insurance is around $850 a year. 

It's also a lot easier to find work as long as you're not the millionth person to come out of University with a computer related degree. Tech is probably the only truly lacking sector here.
You would pay tax on the gain from the point of you renting it out to selling it. But since it's for a short time, you can elect to keep as primary residence: [https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/individuals/topics/about-your-tax-return/tax-return/completing-a-tax-return/personal-income/line-127-capital-gains/principal-residence-other-real-estate/changes-use/changing-your-principal-residence-a-rental-business-property.html](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/individuals/topics/about-your-tax-return/tax-return/completing-a-tax-return/personal-income/line-127-capital-gains/principal-residence-other-real-estate/changes-use/changing-your-principal-residence-a-rental-business-property.html)

But you still have to claim the rental income, just don't CCA it.

EDIT ADDITION: I highly recommend moving before January 2020. Less paperwork on your end. So when you do your 2019 tax return, you do all the usual and you list the date you left Canada as Dec XX, 2019. You'll have your employment income and rental income on your tax return. Don't forget to suspend your provincial health insurance and river's license and you'll be good for being a non-resident.

Depending on what country you go to , you may have issue regarding any investments in Canada.
I’ll be the contrarian, and say your plan isn’t that bad an idea, so long as you know what you’re getting into. Hell, my wife and I are looking at something fairly similar, in the sense that we’re looking to buy a property now with the intention of living there in a number of years after retirement. Having a renter pay some of the purchase price down isn’t that bad an idea, given that we intend to purchase the property at some point.

We’ve also got experience as remote landlords on a different property, and we haven’t had any major issues in the past decade. I’d even go so far as to say our property manager goes a step above, and has provided excellent tenants over the years. That’s not to say it’s not without problems, but we did have a major flood in the past year and our property manager dealt with all the ground work, we did everything else remotely through our insurance company.

I’d say the big question would be if having no rental income would impact your overall retirement plan. We’re fortunate enough to be able to absorb any of the potential costs if we don’t have a renter, so that probably gives us a bit more risk tolerance here. If you’re single income and still have debt to pay down, I’d probably suggest caution though.
