Wow, thank you so much for taking the time to write up this post. I love posts like this because it's motivating and gives back so much value to the community. I'm very happy for your success so I hope you wouldn't mind me asking a few questions to pick your brain..

1) How did you go about determining how much you were compensated for your efforts? 

2) What were the metrics you chose to evaluate the success of a marketing strategy for your client?

3) Where did you learn digital marketing?
This is incredible insight. Motivates me to get on client delivery. My hesitation to approach client always there but this article now motivates me to get on to approach new clients.

Could you please tell me how much experience required. I have 3 years of experience in AdWords and 2 years of experience in SEO and Social media marketing. 

This is great, thanks!  So you never contacted or visited any local businesses? 
Can I ask a technical / set up question. 

I am doing lots of web design work and video production work for clients. 

I want to start moving into Facebook ads with my clients. 

I am planning a monthly fee to include the creation of the ads, videos if used and landing pages if used. 

The bit that trips me up is the ad spend. 

Do you let Facebook bill the client and just invoice for your service or do you bill for everything in advance and you control the ad spend given to facebook?

Obviously if I pay Facebook for the client I am able to change the amount spent on creating the content and the amount spent on the ads per month. Eg 1000 a month spend could be 500 on content 500 given to Facebook one month but month 2 I would give more to Facebook and less on content if I was reusing the ads. 

However most people seam to like to charge a fee and let Facebook bill the client. 

Just looking for some pointers around this. 

Thanks for any help.  
You can get pretty much anything with a valid credit card just do all your research before the free trial expires or get a refund within 30 days - if you need more than 30 days to get all your research done you're not doing it right.
Any free backlink analysis tool that you guys know of. A tool that atleast shows all the linking domains for free. 
SEO quake is also good tool.
Liked it !

&#x200B;

Thanks for sharing.
Thanks! in the right 
Thanks Brother 
Awesome 
Super useful post. Thank you a lot!
Useful list... thanks for sharing the post...
Thank you! 
Great list! There are a few I've never heard of on here, so def going to check them out. Thanks for sharing!
I think there are still many...!
Appreciate the awesome post!

Any Trello tips and tricks? I’ve used it off and on but it never stuck - my current workflow process is wearing on me so I’ve been thinking of trying Trello again (especially after your post).
What’s the point of Funnelytics? Does it make setting up the proper events in your funnel easier or something? I feel like if you can’t figure out the proper event tracking and tagging with your web analytics solution, why would you be able to figure this out unless it was “idiot proof.”
I love Trello! Thanks for the list. I'll check them out.
Excellent post, I´ve tried most of this platforms and had amazing results but them being compiled here is amazing. 

Thanks for taking your time to share this knowledge u/Sanjuujosephh
keyword shitters cooler 
Thanks for sharing!!
Congratulations man. I'm having trouble finding a digital marketing internship, I can't imagine how hard it is to find a job.
Congratulations! Best of the luck!

&#x200B;

Keep learning. Never stop learning. Marketing is ever changing and there is no such a thing as staying at the same knowledge level. If you are not going ahead, you are losing ground.

&#x200B;

Try to add different skills to your stack as well, like if you a have a clear weekness in areas like content marketing, SEO, PPC and social, try to learn as much as possible. 

&#x200B;

Again, best of the luck and congratulations.
Well man, good luck. I just got recently hired too as an SEO analyst. My pay is $35,000 but I live in an area with low expenses. Also, my concern was more about just getting into the industry. That and I'm working with one of the best experts in the field. 45,000 in New Jersey might be a bit difficult to live on tho. I was interviewing with a company in New Jersey a few months back for a PPC position and I was in the final stage. If I had gotten hired, I would have had a $53,000 salary.

I would personally ask the hiring manager about the living expenses of New Jersey, then ask him what he thinks is acceptable for the low and high range of the job's salary taking those expenses into account. He could end up raising your salary as a result. You never know.

Also keep in mind that there are two reasons they hired you. Reason one is because they thought you were the best fit of course. But reason number two is because they can't find anyone with your talent in the state. 
Congratulations...Inspiring post. Thank you for sharing your experience with us.
Recent marketing grad here so sorry if this is a taboo question, but is 45k a common rate for a specialist position in NJ? That’s more or less my base rate going into coordinator positions out in WA. 
Congrats! It's really nice that you can choose your path between the two. I personally really like product marketing and wish that I had this kind of option.
Thanks for the post! Good to hear! Good luck! 
This kind of posts always brings hope for the budding digital marketers out there. 

Congrats on the new position. I'm sure that you'll be the best.
Congratulations man, best thing is just start something of your own while doing the job.a website ,Facebook page group or anything that use your digital expertise.it will gradually grow while you work for this company.and one day there will be  a point where you can do your own thing for living .good luck. 
Congs!!! Just focus on the course after Google ads  training take related course, you will be learning as you are working
FOLLOW INDUSTRY EXPERTS ON SOCIAL
Nice work and congrats! Learn as much as you can, ask to learn what others are working on. Super beneficial as you want to move up the ranks in marketing. 

Also, listen to marketing podcasts and read some articles to stay ahead of trends and new areas of digital marketing. 


Surprised nobody mentioned [Google Digital Garage](https://learndigital.withgoogle.com/digitalgarage), it's free and provides a nice and simple introduction to Digital Marketing.

**Blogs to follow:**

* PPC Hero - [Website](https://www.ppchero.com/)
* Search Engine Land - [Website](https://searchengineland.com/)
* Moz - [Website](https://moz.com/blog)
* KlientBoost - [Website](https://klientboost.com/blog/)
* AdSpresso - [Website](https://adespresso.com/blog/)
* Shopify - [Website](https://www.shopify.com/blog)
* WordStream - [Website](https://www.wordstream.com/blog)
* Jon Loomer - [Website](https://www.jonloomer.com/blog/)
* Ahrefs - [Website](https://ahrefs.com/blog/)
* LunaMetrics - [Website](https://www.lunametrics.com/blog/)
* Annielytics - [Website](https://www.annielytics.com/blog/)
* Simo Ahava's Blog - [Website](https://www.simoahava.com/)

&#x200B;

**People to follow:**

* Jon Loomer [Twitter](https://twitter.com/jonloomer)
* Annie Cushings [Twitter](https://twitter.com/anniecushing)
* Tim Soulo [Twitter](https://twitter.com/timsoulo)
* Brian Dean [Twitter](https://twitter.com/Backlinko)
* Avinash Kaushik [Twitter](https://twitter.com/avinash)
* Barry Schwartz [Twitter](https://twitter.com/rustybrick)
* Rand Fishkin [Twitter](https://twitter.com/randfish)
* Larry Kim [Twitter](https://twitter.com/larrykim)
* Neil Patel [Twitter](https://twitter.com/neilpatel)
* Simo Ahava [Twitter](https://twitter.com/SimoAhava)

&#x200B;

**More worthwhile courses:**

* Hubspot’s Inbound Marketing Course [Website](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/inbound)
* Facebook Blueprint [Website](https://www.facebook.com/blueprint)
* Hootsuite’s Social Marketing Training [Website](https://education.hootsuite.com/courses/social-marketing-education)
* Semrush’s Technical SEO Course [Website](https://www.semrush.com/academy/courses/18/lessons/509)
* Excel for Marketers [Website](https://www.lynda.com/Excel-tutorials/Excel-Marketers/618711-2.html)

**Shameless plug:** I complied a list of [Digital Marketing Resources](https://louddigital.co.uk/digital-marketing-resources/)
Most Youtube channels are full of people trying to sell you $997 courses or get rich quick stuff to newbies. 

Take a look at Profit Copilot and Miles Beckler. 

Also Neil Patel is good but just for very basic stuff. 

If you can think of a particular area of digital marketing there’s probably a specialist out there.
I got hired as a Digital Marketing “assistant”, which was basically my mentor. 

Now I’m a marketing manager for a billion dollar a year ecommerce company, with a huge career ahead of me.

Apply everywhere and show initiative! When I hire, I look for those that are passionate and motivated over skills. Just like my manager did for me.
My best suggestion is to take Seth Hymes digital marketing course. It's $100 a month. He explains things though really simply to where almost everything is easy to understand. And the best thing is is that people from the course will rep your skills on LinkedIn, which will get you a lot of interviews. 
Digital Marketing has become one of the most exciting, challenging and fast-paced industry and it covers a wide and diverse range of areas of knowledge including 

* **Automation** 
* **Email Marketing** 
* **Search Engine Optimization (SEO)** 
* **Search Engine Marketing (SEM)** 
* **Social Media Marketing (SMM)** 
* **Apps Store Optimization (ASO)** 
* **Mobile Marketing** 
* **Content Marketing** 
* **Growth Hacking**

Here I am sharing you some steps that you need to take for become a Digital Marketing Expert: 

* Build your LinkedIn profile and connect with industry expert to learn as well as stay up to date with the latest news.
* Must read Digital Marketing Books/Articles/Blogs which cover fundamental skills to be a successful digital marketer.
* Enroll Yourself in Digital Marketing Certification Courses 
* Start Practicing 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
The list of digital marketing strategies are also constantly evolving, but here are some of the strategies most businesses are using:

**Pay-Per-Click Advertising**

**Paid Search Advertising**

**Search Engine Optimization (SEO)**

**Paid Social Media Advertising**

**Social Media Marketing**

**Conversion Rate Optimization (CRO)**

**Content Marketing**

**Native Advertising**

**Email Marketing**

**Affiliate Marketing**

As you can see from the list above, there are a lot of different ways to market your business online, which is why many businesses hire **Glorywebs** to manage their digital marketing efforts or pay for an in-house marketing team.
A channel I found yesterday which seems useful is "Surfside PPC"
Brother, I would recommend you start listening and watching Gary Vee - Google him. Mainly watch his YouTube channel where he give up the knowledge he learned in his last 20 years doing marketing. Then start reading Jon Loomer and Neil Patel blogs. These guys are practitioners in their craft - Facebook, Instagram, PPC, SEO marketing.

Look back after 3 months of reading all this blogs and listening and watching these guys. You will have knowledge that you never thought you can have.

Don't forget, knowledge is the most powerful tool, if you know how you can apply it in the action.
Follow Neil Patel and Brian Dean (backlinko.com & Neil Patel.com) 
Start with these 2 free resources to test the waters. 

-Hootsuite Social Media Certification (free)
-HubSpot Academy (Free)

See what you like then find some more materials once you see what you’re into. 
Seth Hymes digital marketing career blueprint

I got a part time job in less than a month and a full time one after 3 months

It's a really fun course and Seth is extremely personable and relevant... His goal is to get you excited about DM and get a job in it
 If you create your career in digital marketing, then you learn all major parts of digital marketing like SEO, SMO, PPC, Email Marketing, Paid Marketing On social marketing, Paid marketing in Bing, Yahoo and Google and many search engines, Lead Generation through Social Channels, Affiliate Marketing and some updated things. Desire to learn new things  to grow the business.
I couldn't agree more! It feels like the info that I can actually use is nowhere to be found. Seriously thinking about starting my own blog and trying to actually help people.
100% with you on this. I was guilty of this when I first started blogging. Switched my tune around to focus on posts that try to help small businesses. One of the main things that opened my eyes was every business owner asking if they should pay for yellow pages premium listings & ads. It donned on me that there are plenty of topics around small business that are relevant. Not just how great spending X less on FB and Y more on Instagram increased Z by 1000%
**I think this is why agency experience is valuable.** 

To preface: I respect that you're taking on the challenge of teaching yourself. I recently moved in house for a Digital Marketing Manager role at a small healthcare design/consulting firm and I think being forced to perform really well for a single client is more powerful motivator to learn. I'm also fairly interested in our service offering, which is a nice change. Account management used to take up so much of my time and I never felt like I really needed to go above and beyond for clients. 

&#x200B;

I took my first job at a small agency in the twin cities a few months after graduating from college. We had some seasoned 10-15 year internet marketing vets who have managed to stay pretty sharp and on top of new tools/tactics etc. They were doing mostly selling at this point, but still would help on big accounts.

I came in having never truly worked with the back-end of a website. I had hardly worked with any sort of analytics or reporting tools. Having experienced people to bounce ideas and questions off was essential for me. And seeing in to a variety of businesses can give you all sorts of ideas for things that might work for new clients.

We did rely on a few basic marketing guides that are free online to explain super basic concepts. But after the first few weeks it was kind of sink or swim. Learn as you go with low stakes clients. Mix of B2B and B2C. The practice was super valuable.

&#x200B;

Cheers to continued learning!
I agree! Ironically, many of the marketers made a basic mistake which is not have specific niche, I think that’s why you get into those general, one size fits all type of article. Keep looking though, I think there will be some good content out there 
There are so many bullshitters and scammers out there. It’s been like that for years. I remember when Açaí berry supplements and affiliate marketing were a thing. Then I leaned how legit agencies get it done and never looked back.  That drop shipping crap is a totally different hustle from what we do. 
The best thing about working in-house is that you have an actual product that the right audience wants. Also everyone is focusing on traffic but no one is talking about setting up the right sales funnels. That’s the other great thing about working in-house—it’s about sales and everything you do should have an ROI. Don’t get distracted by the billions of different ways to use digital marketing and just keep your focus on knowing exactly who your customer is.
I totally agree. I always ask myself why aren't they just working instead of telling others how to work. I love working for a small business, learning about their work and trying to help them grow. If I really knew how to get rich I would try to make it myself.

&#x200B;
If you're looking for marketing information online, have you read "Confessions of an Advertising Man" by David Ogilvy? He's the grandpappy of advertising, founder of one of the biggest agencies in the world, and he advocates Direct Response Marketing (a.k.a. SEM). The principles he discusses msy come in handy to you.
> No one is talking about marketing for mom and pop stores, brick and mortar businesses, service based companies, etc. 

Because a lot of these cats don't want to pay the budgets we need but I think you are right, I am also tired of this trend but seems like it is where the money is

&#x200B;
I was thinking today something similar. We are so much surrounded by the “marketing for marketers” that it is hard to find stuff beyond “the box” which is very limiting
As a new marketer I've definitely been disappointed by all the shovel selling going on, not just because so many focus on ONLY selling shovels, but because much of the time the shovels themselves are poorly manufactured so to make you keep coming back for another and another and...
I know exactly what you mean, it’s the whole “I’ll show you how to make money by showing you how to sell things to other people”.

What you’re better doing is actually looking at successful marketers and just doing “what they do” rather than what they “say”.


That’s really interesting because I started a little business years ago to be a freelance marketer to those small bricks and mortar businesses, especially the ones run by older generations that need a conversion to the digital age.

Marketing has become so cheap and tacky, I always want to bring meaningful strategy and good ideas back to the art.
When it comes to point 2, selling systems, I like to approach client the other way around. You help clients get more sales with Facebook ads, you help clients get more phone call with SEO, you help build a better brand with good social media management, etc. To me it looks like most of them don’t care about your service at all, they just care about the result 
Shoutout to the freelancers out there working towards something big.

10 years ago I started that journey and it turned into something amazing. 

There’s light at the end of the tunnel. Keep grinding.
In the middle of changing my prices and services- this was helpful, thanks!
Thanks man helpful 
Lol Dan Lok is that you?
Best. Advice. Ever
Very true
"Jab jab jab, Hook." By Gary V. Give something, earn trust, respect and then ask. Good advice.
Not always the case it mostly consists on how witty you are in promoting your products. Most of the marketers go for constantly marketing their products which makes them look like a person who is just there to sell their stuff and not help the community in any way.
True 
Truth
Show your boss his closest and most rivaled competitor(s) and provide examples of how they're winning with content. This tactic works like a charm.
There’s tons of reports you could find that show digital media spend as a percentage of all media spend for companies. One step further would be showing them how competitors in your industry spend if you have access to tools like that. 
Search, display and advanced programmatic isn't even on his radar?

What's the vertical industry? 
Do you use SFDC or anything like that? If so I’ve found that showing how a marketing automation system can work as an inside sales manager might work. C-level people’s ears perk up when you’re talking directly about sales. 

The social media mavens who came out of the woodwork 10 years ago ruined a lot for people in digital marketing. 
I've found that when trying to educate people internally about things like this it can be more effective to get an outside expert to come in and do a session or a case study. Despite them hiring you as the expert people will always want you to fit into the box they've created for you in their mind, you need someone to expand their perception. You can position it as an opportunity to hear from a top thought leader in the field or something like that to give it a bit more gravitas internally.

Also, if possible just do things without asking for permission. A few small tests that won't use up too much budget. Easier to ask for forgiveness than permission.
Ask him to let you test a budget. 
Show him case studies. I have car dealerships where I drive traffic into their door. Therefore, when I call on other car dealerships to earn business I present them with case studies. 
Perhaps use a specific paid digital marketing channel as an example? Paid search would be a good one. "Hey boss man, digital marketing isn't just social media. Did you know there are people out there searching on Google for the exact product/service we offer and that there's a way we can be the first thing they see when they search?" 
ROI.  Return on Investment.  


Show him the front page of Google, and use Ahrefs to quantify the amount of potential leads you could get for your niche or category, and what keywords are feasible to rank in 30,60,90, and 180 days for your 2019 marketing plan. 
Digital Marketing is strictly product driven, you can't sell a b2b software on Snapchat or a b2c software on a b2b forum.

&#x200B;

I would strongly suggest you tell him your product and where its target audience are. I'm sure they are not only on social media. 
Show him case studies and usage of digital media overall.
Give me his email and i'll convince him... ; )
It’s almost 2019. If they legit still think that in this day and age, turn around, walk away, find another job.
Hi,

The best way is to show your CEO the digital marketing efforts and RIO report of the biggest competitor of your company.  Show him the reach and branding efforts done online and what can be the future revenue generation that you can do with you.
  

I think you should make a PowerPoint presentation and add slides of how digital presence is important and the factors that are associated with ranking. Also you can give show case studies how digital marketing has helped in increasing its presence on the internet platform. 
I'd only try to convince him of one thing at a time.  Otherwise older people tend to shut down when it comes to new tech (not all older people but in my experience its been the 80/20 rule min).

I'd start with the rule of 7. Google it if you are unsure. Then, again, my experience has been that after they understand time of 7 and that we not love in a time where we are bombarded with ads 24/7 on the digital boards in our pockets, you explain what retargeting is. 

I've had great readiness work this as the rule of 7 is and old rule. If I explain it like when I grew up ,( late 30s and yes I explain it this way to older and younger)- watched sat morning cartoons saw brand x, reading comics books, saw brand x, talking to Mom who is looking coupons saw brand x, go to store to buy groceries w my radio plays brand x, get to store see brand x and beg mom for it. 

But you can honestly look around a client's office and point out no less than 5 screens. 

The rule of 7 to 11 and retargeting in a nutshell
Tackled this a lot. 

Nothing works better than live proof. 

Have a meeting and ask everyone in the room to show what they would do when they want to buy the product. No one will go to social. 

With that, have a supporting presentation, calling out that you knew what they’d do (google) and show the marketing funnel, from awareness to conversion. 

You’ll prove they’re missing a big area.
As mentioned, money also talks, so backing up with ROI by channel will help. 

When recently proving we didn’t need a transactional app (retail company) I got everyone to look at their screen time/battery usage - realising it was all social - the app idea was quickly parked. 
Social media is the future of Digital Marketing. As today along with content marketing in Digital Marketing, Social media is the key to Digital Marketing.

Explain these things to your CEO or now if you are not taking it into consideration then definitely  you are lacking somewhere.
Love this idea!
How are you planning to run this? I am curious
I like this idea.
I have only 39 karma here so not to strong account I have yet. Give me advise about how we do this.
I am happy to help.
Sure!
Sounds good. But how?
Hey! Guess what! I have made a subreddit moviemarketing. We choose a movie and watch its marketing stuffs. The channels how they communicate and everything we want.  There we can talk about everything without disturbing the others.

What do u think?
This concept is new and quite interesting
I can't do interviews, my brain simply shuts down and I start mumbling weird sh** :-/

Once when I have been asked why I applied for a job I said that I did it for fun...which wasn't entirely untrue thou....

The irregular use of yes/no was mildly annoying. Just use yes or no.

25% answered yes conveys the same meaning as 75% answered no but makes the whole thing easier to read.
What country is this in? It's hard to believe only 25% prefer a one-page CV... My colleagues and I discard resumes that come in more than 1 page. 
Ohhhhhh !  


This is so interesting ! A big thank you for the share !   
I'm currently trying to land a job as a digital marketer but mannnnn it's so hard ! Thank you a lot !
Experience
Profit Copilot on YouTube does daily vids. 
Can you draw from your own experience, work with clients that can be attributed how you helped them? Generalize across multiple customers?
Why don't you post your own facts and tips? Aren't you an agency? 
if you are agency, you should know to follow the ad platforms for news and what is going on.
I subscribe to a few newsletters like emarketer.
You can visit Moz, semrush, search engine land to get digital marketing facts, tips and updates. 
linked in learning, think with google news letter, google best practices newsletter and basically all of the biggest online marketing podcast are good 
Moz are good and also social examiner 
Zest.is
Follow, neil patel's youtube videos
I found your post taking me back to a time where I felt the most like a strategic marketing manager. 

The grass isn't always greener and as I have moved into larger organisation over the last 10 years, yes there are more people to bounce ideas off and teams to develop, however there are very few skilled people like you able and very capable.

I remember the lonely feeling and often frustration about which direction to take. All I can say is don't spread yourself to thin but keep testing other channels as part if your core activity and enjoy every minute of having the authority to shape the whole confection.

When that job role has long gone believe me you'll have learned so much more than many others in the digital feild than you can realise right now. Teams come with there own challanges/ problems and distractions.

You are not alone you are the pioneer and make sure the people you work for recognise that and value your diverse skills. Team can wait trust me.

Feel free to msg me any time with questions I'll help if I can.

Be excellent.
Yeah I was a “one man show” and it was a lot of work. To be honest though it felt great because my role was crucial for the company (I don’t think they knew this sometimes because none of them knew what seo was for example). I was getting experience in everything and then realizing how underpaid I was, so I took a new job in a different city. More pay and less work. Now I work with a graphic designer, social media specialist and others. Now I don’t feel as important even though I know how to do their jobs (except our graphic designer, he does some insane work). But the team finds me very resourceful because I can do all there work (in case someone goes on vacay or is swamped). So I may not feel as important in my new job but I love the more laid back atmosphere, while getting paid double and learning from others.

Point is whether you’re a lone-wolf marketer or with a team, they both have there own pros and cons. 
I've been there too. Totally open to a slack group, dischord, whatever. Some things that helped me stay productive:

• Careful planning (calendar, marketing calendar, status/ project mgmt. sheet).

• GTD

• Pomodoro

Some things that helped me stay inspired:

• [Meetup.com](https://Meetup.com)

• LinkedIn Groups

• Vistage (Peer advisory for execs.)

Keep us posted on the chat group!
Been this way for 7 years. I feel your pain 😞
Pretty much story of my life, been doing everything from blogging, SEO, landing pages etc. Feels like i'm running a marathon x2 everyday. But a slack channel would be great to help each other with new marketing strategies, growth etc. I think a slack channel is a pretty good idea, would be down to join :) 
I'm not completely solo but I do SEO/SEM-PPC/email/website design/dev/analytics and tracking so I feel you. One thing I started doing is taking tedious low priority tasks and outsourcing it through fiverr and Upwork on company budget of course. Honestly though I like it like this, I feel I can provide good value and it would be hard to replace me cause I have my hands tied with so many things. Best of all this is a really good accelerated learning experience.
I'll join. 
Down for a slack group! Semi alone, it's me and a and a very junior employee working on 3-4 clients
I was solo doing all the online stuff for a long time. It teaches you which aspect of digital you like the best though.
Do you have any agency which is helping w/ execution? Each of those things can be a full-time employee responsible for them.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
I'm too the "one man show" in marketing for a robotcell company I work for, and can relate to the struggles of feeling lonely. 

Would also be down to join a slack channel for us marketers.
Interested!
Yeah it can be frustrating but it’s even worse when you go somewhere bigger and have to wait for days on people to do stuff you can do in 15 minutes.
I am in!  
Up until this year, I was always flying solo (the marketing anyway).

I started off as an affiliate doing SEO & PPC (did that 5 years).

Then I was the VP Marketing of a startup with no one else on my team but me:) I did it all and to be honest, but I wasn't able to do my best because when you do everything you have little time to learn new things. At least I did. I ended up feeling stuck professionally.  
Then I did the same thing for a different company but there I had to outsource the paid media and graphic design because I just couldn't handle it all. It wasn't the best thing for the business for me to do it all.

&#x200B;

There are pros and cons to being a lonely marketing wolf but bottom line I think it can only work while the business is small.

&#x200B;

Anyway, count me in for that slack group.
Interested in the group for sure
Interested! Please keep me posted with the chat group. 
Same here. But awesome learning curve. Let's see where it goes from here. 

About the group though, it's really cool idea. I am in!
Depends on what you want to do in digital marketing. A Marketing degree offers the most opportunity on the marketing/advertising/ecom side while Info Sys sets you up for analytics and data science. A Digital Marketing degree is a waste of money as most programs are at least 5 years behind what we are actually doing in the field.
My university actually offers a digital marketing bachelors degree. The classes have been so cool and actually teach me skills to use at work. Maybe try searching for schools with degrees like that?
[deleted]
There's a lot to learn even as a Marketing major, assuming you find a good program that fits your own interests. I learned a lot about consumer behavior, campaign ideation/creation, persuasive writing, and parts of the research process in the marketing classes I took while majoring in Communications.

A lot of digital marketing is learned on the job and a degree is only there to set foundations for further growth. Choose whatever interests you and go from there. A degree won't trap you into a specific career path in this industry - experience and tangible results matter more.
I think a traditional marketer can easily make a transition to digital marketing. 
Strategic planning. Web design and development will be commoditized for the most part in the next decade. Data and insights that drive the direction of a business through digital has much more staying power and value long term. 
Hands-on will always be your best bet for marketing. Outside of that classes in business management, financial and those area are smart because understanding the business and how to make it money will make you standout from those who just understand marketing but nothing of the business.,
Yes exactly, Google Analytics is my favorite too 👌
Take digital marketer classes online, get certified, take action!
I have a Philosophy BA and a strategy MBA. When i finished the masters I started working in digital marketing making MySpace pages a d selling banner clicks for $0.10. 

I use both degrees everyday and agree you can avoid marketing. 
Crying usually.
I do it that way to.

Highest value activity is staying current on reading.

2nd highest value activity is writing  and posting it where ever there is an audience.

Everything else is 3rd.

Biggest waste of time,  refreshing stats.
Solo marketer here. Most of my time is spent on email. We send *too freaking many* a week, and I’m in charge of the writing the copy for all of them.  Besides that, I spend time doing audience engagement, partnership outreach, and metrics. 


I do! I do have some help with website , once our content writer sends us info, my media person goes on and makes updates 

Here is a typical day for me 

1) Pull open my marketing calendar as soon as I get in and see what’s going out for the day , program emails ( I run our email campaigns to) 

2) make some social media posts depending on what content I have 

3) make website updates 

4) build more email campaigns ( we do 8 big events a year so we always have rolling events)

5) check in with production and make sure she is on task with her materials 

6) look at analytics for past trends 

7) update all production documents I have created to keep my team on track ( I have a timeline for anything and everything )

8) check in with event manager on anything she needs me to promote to custom groups 

9) update my project management software 

This is a slow day for me usually it’s about double the size of the list ... it’s fun but crazy ! 
Yup... and for an agency, meaning that loneliness you feel is, for me, multiplied by however many clients we have at any one time. I hate to say it but I spend most of my time explaining the absolute basics of what I do (the top of the ice burg) to clients and people I work with to make sure they see the value. As for actual hands-on work (the part of the ice burg you can't see), I spend as much time as possible creating efficiencies in my workflow, streamlining processes, automating things to save time, and researching ways to do so. I constantly feel like I'm robbing Peter to pay Paul but any time saved in one area is time I can spend elsewhere. The sad truth is if you can't explain/prove your value to whoever pays you (employer or clients) it doesn't matter what you spend your time on if you are the most experienced in your work, even if the levers you pull on a daily basis are making a huge difference... which they most likely are. Obviously, it varies person-to-person depending on your strengths/weaknesses, business-to-business depending on biz objectives, budgets, etc. but always make sure they know the value of your work. You can do 10 things poorly or a couple of things well and there are only so many clicks of the mouse you can make in any one day, pick the ones with the largest impact and sell the SH!T out of it.
solo digital marketer for a small company here. i'd say my time is divided pretty evenly between content creation (blog posts, infographics, email content), backlink outreach, SEO, website design and updates, and analytics.

probably the most valuable of these is backlink outreach. backlinks are king for SEO and our referral traffic from backlinks converts at a pretty high rate. but, in order to earn relevant backlinks you need good content. so these go hand in hand.

analytics is also important so you know what is working and what needs tweaking.
I am a solo digital marketer for 3 small companies, just starting and learning. Right now I spend the most of the time on SEO updates, SEO monitoring, SEM- Adwords, Google Merchant. For a webshop, google merchant seems to be working. Now my plan is to focus on email marketing, newsletter, reviews etc etc. Then I finally have to move with ebay, amazon and then all the social media marketing , posts, comments, engaging with people...There have been a lot of setting up recently. I know I probably should be doing everything at the same time , especially social media. I would actually prefer to hire a social media professional, who can give advice regarding, campaigns, content, engaging, directing the crowd to website and motivating for sales... Damn, this kind of field is SO much work. I am just learning so if you guys have any suggestions please feel free!!!
We are a tiny startup and everybody is doing marketing here. I'm a developer but I mostly write content and engage with fellow developers. It was a big change for me but I was told about it before I joined so it wasn't a surprise.
Yes, I am a solo Marketer for my company. I have divided my time and concentrating first on the Channel which is most potential.  

&#x200B;

Seriously I was in the same boat. I follow a Quant based marketing that a mint has followed. I have created my own plan and working on. It makes my life easy and getting some good result.

&#x200B;

For you simple and small tricks.

1. Identify all the marketing channels
2. Focus on the channels where is your target audience 
3. Don't ignore the other channel start preparing side by side 
4. Run the campaign on every channel for one week.

Thanks
Working as Assistant Manager Digital Marketing in a medium size software house, I also do the same but I have a team including Content Writers, Social Media Experts and PPC Specialists. I also do coordinate with Dev Team to create new pages, improve site performance and many more. 

The highest value activity for me is to do Keyword Research and Analysis that takes a lot of time and require expertise too. Also I do work audit including site audit, colleagues work report checking and prepare reports accordingly.   
Yup, I'm the head of marketing for a software company. I'm also the only marketer, so I do it all. 

It really depends on your companies goals and challenges. Most have similar goals of increasing revenue, more leads, etc. But the challenges also give a good picture of how to spend your time. Ours was a brand visibility issue and attracting the right buyers. 

So for me, content marketing, account based marketing, and paid ads would be big avenues. In between other things like email marketing, social media marketing, etc. come into play too. 

I tend to knock out small mundane tasks right in the am, and focus on  items that move the needle most. It comes down to prioritizing what has the greatest immediate and long-term impact. 
Content. There will be more and more importance for quality content in digital marketing. So, every digital marketer will be forced to spend majority of time on content going forward.

Another important point - it is not about only creating tons of content; It is about creating quality content , content customization as per customer persona, different forms of content suitable for distribution channels, creativity in content creation to hook up the customers. 

There will be multiple activities depending on various factors, but the central point is going to be Content. 
I'm the solo digital marketing manager for a small company also.

My highest value activity is analyzing and interpreting campaign data. If you're spending a lot of time creating content you need to know what the effect of that content is, so you need everything tracked and attributed as much as possible so you can decide for yourself if it's worthwhile and what aspects of it are most effective.
Well, this is a vague question. Digital marketing is like a car. You've got tire guys, radiator gals, engine people, paint folks. 

To have vast knowledge of all of this is great but if you specialize in Tires and someone asks you to fix the chip in your windshield you likely may have an idea but you are not the most qualified person to ask. 

Same goes for digital marketing. I can ask my search engine marketing guy what I should do about social media and he may have some advice but probably not the best advice. 

To look at it even deeper version people specialize in vw engines. Just vw engines. That's it. Certain people also specialize in just Instagram marketing. And that's it. 

My best advice is to have a wide scope of knowledge but to specialize in one particular thing you can get really good at. 
I’m currently open right now to new opportunities. I love my job but at almost 2.5 years in the same role I’m
Ready for more eventually.... I had to sit down and really think what it is I do at my job. I had a list of about 20 things. I then went on LinkedIn and looked up similar jobs and honed down. Like someone else said on here, Digital Marketers aren’t a one size fits all. Some specialize in things that others don’t and vice versa..

My company has 3 people. My marketing manager, my UX designer, and me. My role is Marketing Communications Specialist. I oversee all of our Email marketing campaigns , I analyze data , I work on our website , I do our social media, I work our in person events I work on our mobile app. I basically had to take all this kitchen sink of duties that I oversee and pick and pull the skills within those that are relevant. 

If I were you, a good start is email marketing. Set up a mail chimp account and practice. Do marketing for a non profit ( I did that for experience before Landing this job) just get as much exposure as possible ... take anything that gives you an offer if you stand behind the company 
Broncohouse is dead on. I can do most things that fall under the digital marketing umbrella but my expertise is in SEM/PPC. Find your lane and master it. 

As for getting experience, volunteer, intern, freelance for small businesses and non-profits. Do whatever you can to get some hands on experience. That will help you more than any book or class. 

Good luck!
You might want to do affiliate marketing or, better yet, sell your own digital products (e-books, for example)  through a site you use as a PORTFOLIO SHOWCASE or CASE STUDY for you a future job or Joint venture proposition...

  
Practice and hone your craft daily and PRODUCE RESULTS

  
Once you're able to produce solid traffic,you will have a LOT MORE OPTIONS

  
Cut your teeth on Amazon product affiliate pages or you can sell your own ebooks. The latter is actually quite cheap because there are book writers you can retain on Upwork / Freelancer or Fiverr. You can also try cheap niche-specific ghostwriters like the writer Gene Eugenio who would write original books for $27 (as long as they fit a narrow range of niches he specializes in). The upside to cheap niche specific writers is obviously their cost but the downside is their tight focus on specific niches.

  
Regardless, the key is to master driving traffic and OPTIMIZING CONVERSIONS. These are powerful digital marketing skill sets worth GOLD!
to me the most important factors in a successful marketing campaign are the right use of hashtags and a lot of engagement with the followers
Thanks for this post! Any advice on how to find the right hashtags?
It is used synonymously, although I've never seen someone who actually works in marketing call it "internet marketing". Digital is the term that is currently used. 
  

Digital Marketing and Internet Marketing are like objects of the same class.  Digital Marketing is like a broad term that describes a set of marketing processes that encapsulates all available digital channels to promote a product or service or build a digital brand. Internet marketing is a subset of digital marketing. As a whole Internet marketing can be sub categorized as Website, Search Marketing, Content Marketing, Email Marketing, Ads and many more. 
Digital marketing means marketing of products or services using various digital technologies, mainly on the Internet, but can also include mobile phones, display advertising, and any other digital medium.

Digital marketing is not restricted only to internet channels but also extends to non-Internet channels that provide digital media, such as mobile phones (SMS, callback) etc. In other words, Internet marketing is a subset of digital marketing. The extension to non-Internet channels differentiates digital marketing from internet marketing.
I agree with you I also never seen people who have the designation "**Internet Marketing**". Digital Marketing is a combined body of  **SEO**(Search Engine Optimization), **SEM**(Search Engine Marketing), and **SMM**(Social Media Marketing). There is one more hidden **SMS**(Social Media Sharing). Some peoples also Include **PPC**(pay per clicks) to ***Digital marketing***. 

&#x200B;

Internet Marketing is a New **WORD** for defining a Whole Internet Marketing. In Short, we can say that "***Internet Marketing"*** and "***Online Marketing***" is Just a synonymous of "**Digital Marketing"**
No, Internet marketing is just a synonym of Digital marketing.
 From my point of view, internet marketing and digital marketing is interrelated terms. Digital marketing carry internet marketing(SEO, PPC) plus phone messages, digital advertising(FB, Twitter,Instagram). 

&#x200B;
Big difference
  Digital marketing is a broad term that describes a set of marketing processes that encapsulates all available digital channels to promote a product or service or build a digital brand.

Internet marketing is a subset of digital marketing. It is in fact the most important component since the majority of digital marketing activities fall within the boundaries of Internet marketing.
the first rule of digital marketing is you don't talk about digital marketing
I'd like to propose a set of Rules for Digital Marketing (Agency Edition)

1) The creed of a planner: RFP, Powerpoint, billing

2) See what worked then adjust the goalposts

3) Readers are sheep and any minor change to the website will result with them wandering off the page (to complain on twitter)

4) Without your clients, you are nothing (see 6)

5) Clickfunnels is garbage, though the client will refer to them frequently during all negotiations

6) Client happiness is the only metric which counts

7) The plan is only as good as the product (and screenshot quality of the RFP's)

8) We aren't crabs in a barrel (excluding the account team), we're dolphins in a pub 

9) The rules change frequently and often, but the game remains the same... is a fancy way of saying that you'll be working in Excel most of the day

10) Do the right thing and don't be evil (but define "evil" as loosely as Google does)
Why is Clickfunnels garbage? (Newbie here)
Enlighten me about Clickfunnels
Number 6. So hard to convince clients of that.
**These 10 rules will help you build a base that will be useful to your customers, to your brand.**

**1. Listen:** Succeeding in social networks and content marketing requires listening more and speaking less. Therefore, read the online content of your target audience and participate in discussions to learn what is important to your followers. Only then you can create content and generate conversations that provide them with something valuable. 

**2. Focus your attention:** It is better to specialize in two or three networks to be inefficient in all. With a content marketing strategy to build a brand you have more opportunities to succeed than with one that pretends to be everything for everyone. 

**3. Produce less but quality contents:** It is better to have a few thousand online connections that read, share and discuss your content with their own audiences, than 1,00,000 connections that disappear after connecting with you for the first time. 

**4. Be patient:** The success of social networks and digital marketing, content do not happen overnight. Although it is possible to catch a lightning bolt in a bottle, it is likely that you will need to commit long term to achieve results. The secret lies in finding the appropriate language for your audience. 

**5. Create unique content:** The audiovisual experience and the generation of exemplary texts are the basis for mastering online spaces. If you publish great and quality content and you work to build an audience of first rate followers - exemplary people who follow you and care about you - they will share it with their circles on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, their own blogs and more. . Sharing and discussing your content opens new access points for search engines such as Google to locate it using keywords. 

**6. Be influential:** Take time to find out who (in your market) are the most popular, followed and heard online. Connect with these people and work to build relationships with them. If you step on their radar as an authority or as a relevant source of useful information, they may share your content with their own followers, which could put you and your business at the forefront of a huge new audience. 

**7. Add value:** If you spend all your time on social networks directly promoting your products and services, people will stop listening to you. These tools are based on the ability to maintain an interesting conversation. Add value to your talk by creating fabulous content and developing relationships with those who exert influence online. Over time, these people will become catalysts of word-of-mouth marketing.

**8. Make them recognize you:** You would not ignore someone who approached you in person, so do not do it online. Building relationships is one of the most important elements when it comes to the success of marketing in social networks, so always respond to every user that approaches you. If you are cordial and participative in the dialogue with your client, he will recognize and divulge your brand through his own channels. 

**9. Become accessible:** Do not publish your content and then disappear. Stay available for your audience. That means you need to post content and participate in conversations consistently. Online followers can be fickle and will not hesitate to replace you if you disappear for weeks or months. Precisely, social media serves to satisfy the need for communication and to ensure the presence of the brand at all times. Your voice must be available at every moment that is required. 

**10. Share content from others:** You can not expect others to share your content and talk about you if you do not do the same for them. A part of the time you spend on social networks should be used to share and talk about what others publish. This diversifies your information offer and satisfies the need for disclosure of your audience, guaranteeing your loyalty.

&#x200B;

Thanks.
A major change is that you become far more involved in strategy. You still end up doing a lot of the grunt work you were doing before, but now you're really able to shape these projects, rather than just having to execute them.
I went from nothing next to nothing to becoming digital marketing manager over the last two years. I started off learning Facebook/Instagram ads from someone in the company who eventually ended up leaving. After really growing their online sales for a year and a half they decided to promote me. Now I still am in charge of Facebook/Instagram ads like before, but I also am in charge of testing new platforms and apps and reaching out to potential influencers. So it’s not too different from what I was doing before, just more responsibilities and better pay. 

FYI the company I work for was really small when I started and blew up over the last year or so. If they were already more established it probably would have taken longer to move from entry level to manager. 
I have a funnel in place that is maybe 4-5 steps. The owners actually write/make awesome content that I make sure gets sent to the best audiences and the budgets are where they should be. 
I've managed to become a manager in a span of 9 months and increased my salary 400%. I started out as a marketing assistant and the agency I used to work on back then decided to give me away to their client because the client really liked my work they wanted to take me as a part of their in house marketing team. It took a lot of reading and experimenting though and work doesnt really stop at my office. Also, part of it is your bargaining power specially with promotions and salary increase you should also be good at seeing your worth and making people notice it. 

P.s. getting the right certifications helps in career growth too. 
Yes.. I began working in another role and got promoted to a Digital MarCom role. My next step is MarCom manager or Digital Marketing Manager. 

I work on our website (CMS), all our email marketing and marketing automation, our social media platforms, salesforce , our CRM . I also use tools built into our email marketing platform to analyze trends and data and show click throughs / conversions .... in a vacuum i do a lot of different pieces that all tie in together 

I have more work but I use the same technology. It has forced me to be more organized that’s for sure 
I feel Like I will be stuck as an assistant forever. I’m very sick of creating posts though. Going nuts at work, no perspective of growing 
It all depends. Assuming you hire quality people, it's likely better to hire an agency for multiple services vs. different freelancers. Pricing is impossible to say without understanding the industry or what the needs are. Anyone who tosses out a flat rate without understanding your business and goals, walk away. We see what all is needed, what the budget is, and base the monthly fee off of how many hours we will be dedicating to the client each month. 
As a full stack marketing for small business it’s interesting to hear perceptions on this for sure!

My perspective is that a full stack agency understands the strategy and how things link together.

We map our customers through a process based on human psychology that turns them from strangers to brand advocates - I.e they’re out actively referring people to businesses.

So whereas you may find the most amazing google ads manager, if they don’t understand that there’s a landing page issue and the copy in the email that sends out your lead magnet is off, or that the voice in your social doesn’t match that in your ads - you won’t be optimizing your brand impact.

My 2 cents! 
Typical agency fees for paid media management is 15-20% of spend. The price varies and can drop down to just 10%, but the 15-20% is typical. Usually Google campaigns are priced closer to 15% and social is closer to 20%. Anything is else is usually $125-250/hour. I'm happy to help you navigate this world. It can be overwhelming sometimes. 
In my experience I've found that it's better to use someone or some businesses that specializes in a certain part of digital marketing. 

So many times full service means they might do one thing really well but actually suvk at another. However they are visually appealing. 

I spent 6k 5 years ago on a company that got me two sales equaling about$30. 

Facebook guys are Facebook guys. AdWords girls are AdWords girls. Content marketing Peeps are just that. 

Be careful before going all in on an agency. I work with a bunch. Many times they just talk about their experience but actually have no idea what is happening right now

It seems to me that you need to clarify your 2019 marketing goals. If you are running everything yourself and asking about cost for a freelancer V an agency, I'm going to assume your budget is small. Which is fine, however you can't and won't get everything. So pick what it the furthest from your own area of expertise and get an agency or Freelancer which operates in this area. Outsource Google Ads, SM ads/posts, image creation, stuff which doesn't require an intimate knowledge of the business. As for the content marketing, if you are a smaller business and really know your stuff, you won't be happy with the content a non-expert writes for your blog anyway - so keep that in house. I'd also suggest, if you know a bit about Adwords, keeping an eye on what is working and what's been done by your freelancer or agency - if you aren't versed in it - hire a guy once off every 6 months to audit the work - I've seen thousands burned by agencies not monitoring accounts for businesses which assumed they were getting a good service. I can't give you a price range as I know nothing about your businesses or plans. Good Luck. 
Full service for AdWords, to me, would mean development of landing pages (priced out per platform as different codes are more cumbersome to work with), site backups on your hosting, content writing, and management of the campaign. I would set limits as to what full service means in the contract. All encompassing... up to x-many hours per month. 

One client may say “I would like a landing page for each of my 3 services” while another would like one for each of the 200 cities they service. 
You’ll definitely need to more clearly define “full service”. Do you want a text ad Google campaign plus 3 blog posts a month simulposted to Facebook or do you want a weekly social video, custom content for Instagram daily blogging, twitter/Facebook community management, high end google ppc management, a/b landing page testing, display/remarketing with animated banners etc.

My guess is you don’t really know what all you want/need and might prefer to have multiple agencies pitch you various service levels and price points. If your annual digital marketing budget is at least 500k this might be a worthwhile exercise. If not, you won’t be able to afford to work with the good agencies and likely only weak agencies who overpromise/underdeliver will even give you a new business song and dance.

If you’re in the 100k-500k range and need some help choosing high ROI efforts to keep scaling up your business, hiring an experienced digital consultant like me to help you create a plan and evaluate vendors could be a good option. Feel free to message me if you’d like to.

Good luck!
[Domain White Pages](http://domainwhitepages.com/) Helps me find the contact info of a domain name owner (if they haven't paid extra for privacy)

[Hemmingway](http://www.hemingwayapp.com/) Helps me write better

[Google Trends](https://trends.google.com/trends/?geo=US) Helps me see what's trending in my city

[Trello](https://trello.com) Helps me stay organized

[Hubspot](https://hubspot.com) Is my favorite CRM. It also has a great blog with tons of learning material

[SEO Quake](https://www.seoquake.com/index.html) is an add on for Firefox that helps me see approx traffic to a webpage and their sources, also shows a keyword density analysis and other useful page info

[Findera](https://www.findera.com/) and [Data.com](https://connect.data.com/home) help me find contact info of decision makers ([data.com](https://data.com) is being shut down next year, still useful in the meantime)

[Product Hunt](https://producthunt.com) helps me find cool, new tools and projects people are publishing. Tons of tools for digital marketers and sales people. Also, if you have a project that you need more users on, Product Hunt is the place to publish your project.

[Think With Google](https://www.thinkwithgoogle.com/) A great blog with tons of marketing ideas

&#x200B;

Those are just a few that came to mind, hope it helps!
[SEM Rush](https://www.semrush.com/) is amazing for all aspects of SEO

[SiteSpect](https://www.sitespect.com/) if you're at a company with high traffic. Best way to A/B test or MVT site changes.

[HootSuite](https://hootsuite.com/) great for organizing and scheduling social posting.

Google Analytics for understanding how people behave on your website.
* Trello - Work Management
* Funnelytics - Create & Manage Funnels.
* Sendgrid - Emails
* Evernote - Notes & Tasks
* Linktree - Instagram Links
* Buffer - Social Media Management
* Agile CRM
* Softscotch Digital Marketing Tools - Calculate Advertising Formulas | Calculate ROI | Compare Digital Marketing Benchmarks | Compare Email Benchmarks.
Semrush and Screaming Frog. Trello for simple project management. 
Extensions: SimilarWeb, whatruns, Google Analytics, SEO Quake


Analytics
Here are few of mine Semrush, Google analytics, keyword planner, Moz, backlinkprofiler, twitter deck, domain authority checker, Ahref, Screaming frog.

&#x200B;
Twitter and LinkedIn. Engaging content there pulls in customers I’d never would have had a thought, or opportunity, to contact.
[SpyFu](https://www.spyfu.com) & [iSpionage](https://www.ispionage.com/) for competition research 

[Moz](https://www.moz.com) & [CognitiveSEO](https://cognitiveseo.com) for SEO 

[Builtwith](https://www.builtwith.com) for Lead Generation 

[OxyLeads](https://oxyleads.com) for prospecting
SALESmanago - very simple, but powerful software. Includes all necessary Marketing Automation tools.
  

Google Analytics, Webmaster, Google Trends, Awesome Screenshots are some of my favorite digital marketing tools. 
Here is pretty much EVERYTHING I use on a regular basis in my job. I have been a Digital Marketing Manager / Strategist for about 6+ years. I hope you find something you're not using, but I also want to know if you have something I missed / if you can recommend a more powerful tool to replace any of these. Thanks!

-

AdBlock Plus Chrome Extension: Blocks advertisements while browsing the web.

Adobe Brackets: Free text editor I use for editing HTML, CSS, Javascript files.

Adobe Creative Cloud: I use Photoshop, Premiere Pro, Auditions, InDesign, Illustrator regularly (in that order).

Amino Chrome Extension: Saves custom CSS code for individual websites / web pages. This is seriously helpful if you constantly have to reload the Facebook home page in your job because you can remove all the stuff on there that you don't need to see every time (increases page load speed). Requires minor (sometimes decent) CSS skills. I mostly use it for Facebook, but for a few other sites too.

Apple iTunes Podcast Developer Account: Free account I set up for podcast distribution.

Bitly: URL shortener and link tracking tool.
[See also: Google Analytics URL Builder]

Dropbox: Cloud-based file storage - works on every device. We use this to distribute large files externally and internally. We also put backups on here so that they're not stored locally clogging up our Macbooks.

Emojicom: Neat little survey tool that can be implemented on your website. Ask simple questions and get answers in the form of emoji. I wish it was more feature-rich, but I switch it on from time to time to get quick feedback on a new feature. Can be implemented on individual pages or the entire site.

Epidemic Sound: Royalty-free / copyright-claim-free music library that provides high quality audio for use in YouTube videos.

Facebook Ads: Our biggest advertising platform - we have a budget of around £300/day.

Facebook Chat Plugin: A chat plugin for your website that lets visitors message you on Facebook Messenger instantly, without having to leave the website. If they choose to leave the website after sending the message, we can still respond to them on Facebook.

Facebook Pixel Helper Chrome Extension: This will seriously help you to troubleshoot and test the Facebook Pixel when you're implementing it. Seriously, if you don't have Facebook Pixel installed, I don't know how you'll ever have a successful Facebook advertising campaign.

FIO Chrome Extension: Replaces all new tabs with a time-zone visualisation that makes it easy to see different time-zones compared to your own. Great when working with worldwide colleagues / third-parties.

Firetext: A digital text messaging service that can be integrated with Zapier (see below) to produce automated update messages for customers.

Flume App: This app allows you to create Instagram drafts, post Instagram drafts (manually), respond to comments and respond to user messages all within a Mac App (no requirement to use the Instagram app on mobile phone). Highly recommended for businesses, and extremely useful for companies with large quantities of customer service messages to respond to. Prone to crashing, has numerous bugs, can't view/post Instagram Stories, isn't perfect, but still super helpful.

Formstack: A form tool that can easily be linked with Zapier to help with automated processes. Considering moving to Typeform, but we have so much automation running through Formstack that it'll be a huge project.

Google AdWords: Advertising platform.

Google Analytics URL Builder Chrome Extension: Allows you to add UTM tags to a URL as well as shorten using Bitly all in the browser and then auto-copies to your clipboard. Saves me so much time, it's unreal.

Google Docs: A powerful browser-based document editing software that allows multiple users to work on a file at the same time. If you use Microsoft Office in your workplace, still use this for individual projects (you can Export a file as a .doc / .docx format anyway).

Google Keyword Planner: Lets you plan Google marketing campaigns as well as which keywords to better utilise on your website (SEO).

Google Sheets: A powerful browser-based spreadsheet software that allows multiple users to work on a file at the same time. This is my go-to for our Content Calendar of what we're posting and when.

Grammarly Chrome Extension: Omfg. If you're in a Marketing role, just get Grammarly, okay? If you're a Manager - make your employees get it. It's not perfect, but if you have a decent grasp of grammar anyway, it can spot mistakes or make recommendations. Full disclosure: couldn't be bothered running this post through Grammarly. Don't message me if I made a mistake, I don't care :D.

GSuite: A more powerful version of Google’s free software. I'm on the fence with this one, but I thought I'd add it anyway. What do you think? Worth it?

Hootsuite: I literally only use this for LinkedIn post scheduling. Come on LinkedIn, get on the f***in' ball and let us schedule posts.

Hotjar: GDPR-friendly, secure user tracking tool that can create heatmaps, scrollmaps and even screen recordings of user activity on a website. A really great way to do UX testing.

Mailchimp: I've used Mailchimp, Campaign Monitor, Dotmailer, in-house systems, and I've even created HTML templates from scratch. I just like Mailchimp over other platforms. I've never worked in a company where the pricing makes that much difference, so I usually get to choose the platform I want to use.

Reddit: Yep - I even use Reddit in my job, but only to find interesting blog-post ideas. Go on any subreddit related to your field of work. Switch to Top Posts, and select the last month. See if there's anything decent to write about that you don't already know.

SEMRush: I love this tool, but I'll be perfectly honest, I don't have the time to go through it as much as I should. One of my colleagues does this for me.

SocialBlade: Go on SocialBlade and add your competitor Instagram accounts (if they're already on there, it's because they're either monitoring themselves, or someone else is monitoring them too!) If they're not currently on SocialBlade then there'll be no data, but you've added them so the data will start rolling in. This will help you see how they grow their Instagram account (follow for follow? batch follow and unfollow? organic?).

Stitcher: Helps to publish podcasts to multiple platforms autonomously.

Soundcloud: Allows Stitcher to distribute podcasts across multiple platforms autonomously.

Trello: A kanban-style to-do list / project management tool. I add stuff to it, and then never check it. I enjoy going back after months and being like, "Oh yeah, I was supposed to do that... oh well."

Tweetdeck: I hate this app, but it makes message replies, scheduling posts, following competitor accounts, extremely easy.

Webmerge: A merging tool that allows you to upload a file with {tags} that reference something (think something like a field on Formstack). So, a customer fills in their {Name} etc. and then Webmerge creates an Excel file that looks like our PDF order form with {Name} on it already. We have about 120 different tags that merge on to this spreadsheet. It then auto-emails the Excel sheet to the correct Salesperson who can then edit and save as a PDF. Sounds complicated, but it's okay once you get used to it, and removes hours of work for the Sales team.

WhatsApp Business: Get customer permission to use this - you will need a phone, SIM card (because WhatsApp Business can't be run from an email address - wtf), Google Contacts (if using Android phone). Don't spam your customers - they can report you and block you (you won't be notified with either. If they say STOP, remove them from Google Contacts and remove them from your WhatsApp. I could talk about WA Business all freakin' day, but simplest tricks are set up Broadcasts (be really f***in' careful you don't select Group), send infrequently, don't be too salesy.

YouTube: This is a serious marketing tool if you a) have a good camera, b) have a good subject to talk about, c) have a good editor, d) post content regularly, e) remember to focus on SEO, f) create videos 7-10 mins long, g) have a good personality presenting the info.

Yummy FTP Lite: Used to manage files on servers. If more functions are required there is also a ‘Pro’ version, but so far this has been suitable for all tasks I've needed it for.

Zapier: An automation tool that is invaluable to saving time and effort with moving data between multiple services. For example, creating a populated spreadsheet row on Google Sheets for every person who filled in a Facebook Lead Gen advert. Hundreds of possibilities to save time across the whole team. I could talk about this all day as well, but I don't want to. Go check it out!

-

Hope this helps everybody!
Completely! You have put it very well and I feel the same way... I also have friends who are in the same boat.

Not sure what to do tho...
Completely agree... 
You so well put into words what I've been feeling the last few months. I'm only 2-3 years into the CM game coming from a journalism background and it's really hard to find learning sources that aren't either incredibly basic (step 1: make content people like! ...), or incredibly specific for an individual client or niche industry. Have attended some different "boot camps" as well but it's just more of the same. Claims after claim with no real data or proof to back them up. So when I do want to try something I read online, it feels like the blind risk falls entirely on me and my team. Stressful. 
Been working in Digital Marketing for the last few years. Absolutely 100% agree with you and it frustrates the shit out of me. In fact, it frustrated me so much that I left the industry for 6 months but then decided to come back and I'm happy I did. But it's time to start making a change in the industry, at least at the ground level, by controlling what we can control. Would love to talk more sometime.
People almost turn into the persona. They are constantly trying to squeeze value out of themselves as a professional. Sometimes it just seems too forced. 

It almost seems arrogant. 

I'm at the beginning of my self-taught digital marketing journey and I can say that all that 'buzzword listicle' noise that surrounds the industry can be frustrating for sure. 

Not only is there a lot of content to learn about, digest and implement but you now have the added hurdle of sifting through and filtering all the people marketing to the marketers and such.  But I guess you can say you'll have this in every industry to some extent, right?
Thank you for so articulately explaining this phenomenon. I don't understand how Digital Marketing somehow devolved into this Buzzfeed-like crap. I work in high-tech and market for a very small niche audience. I'm writing technical content for primarily sys admins who don't want to read another fucking listical, but I'm constantly feeling pressured to push the "cutesy" stuff. I really hope something turns around soon and we can start seeing more technical, evidence-based advice for content marketing. I will say the YouMoz blog will turn up a great article every once in a while that has very thorough research and evidence to back up claims. Other than that it's been pretty dry. Good luck, though!
[deleted]
who
Bill is an SEO OG. Not the most exciting speech I’ve ever seen, but he’s smart, hardworking and comes to accurate conclusions about effective ways to promote a business online. I’ve seen him speak at a conference or two in the past.
Do you mean Bill Slawski?
[removed]
good post
Solid advice. 
I do have a problem with reaching people who might need our products. I am not sure what it is I'm lacking but you can see our facebook page https://www.facebook.com/cornerstonesystem/ I was thinking that facebook is not a good place to market this kind of product though I have linkedin and instagram profiles. Can anyone enlighten me? thanks
Thanks for your information, it's useful to beginners.
Thanks for your information. It is very informative for beginners

HourGlass IT Solutions: www.hourglassit.com/digital-marketing-services
Contact us for more details
Super helpful, thanks!
That's great nicely curated 👍
I think twitter and LinkedIn will be better for any beginner.
Social media channels are great for promoting your business online. This way your product reaches your target audience and you have a higher success rate of getting them onboard. For more info, visit: https://www.viralbao.com/social-media-promotions/blogs/top-social-channels-to-boost-your-business
Source/medium is important (make sure all traffic is UTM tagged!)

Gather data on the webpages people are visiting 

Gather data about the audience- where they came from, what they did, and their characteristics. 
> ...and interpreting the reports as quickly as possible...  

This can't be learned by reading, only by doing.
Do you mind giving us a salary ballpark? Congratulations!!
CXL has s great course on GA, pricey though . 
Learn data studio!
Do you know how long it takes for digital teams to develop a banner ad or a web page or create an app, etc?
I've been a digital coordinator for 5 months for a national company with 90 locations. I can give you advice, are you working in house or for an agency? 
Facebook Blueprint (free)
Google Digital Garage (free)
Sill Share 
Udemy offers free and paid course in a variety of subjects including digital marketing. Also, GenM helps you find an internship/mentorship while learning about digital marketing for free.
Nick Peroni’s Ecom Empire is great. Ecomempire.co
Go through Googles free Academy for Ads courses
https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/
Search digital marketing in [Udemy.com](https://Udemy.com)

And try [Lynda.com](https://Lynda.com) too
What area of digital marketing are you looking to go in to specifically? I might be able to mentor/give you access to some courses 
Seth Hymes' course is pretty good. It's $100
Does anyone here go with classroom instead of online course? I get it that online course is cheaper, efficient, and available anywhere and anytime as long as you have internet connection.

But I feel sometimes it is also important to connect with real life person. 
Agreed. More than anything get yourself a mentor. That is far more important than learning everything
Take a look on YouTube. There's a tonne of video tutorials for all aspects of digital marketing. Pick ONE and make it work for you. 

I suggest affiliate marketing or dropshipping as the easiest things to get into.

&#x200B;

Best of luck.
twitter flight school is also free

Digital Marketing is almost the same like traditional marketing, means you have a product or service that you want to sell, and you’re looking to find the ways to engage with customers and generate sales. It is a fast growing and incredibly competitive industry so you need to stay update on top of current news and latest trends by following major digital marketing sites. Here I am sharing some recommendations on websites to get started learning and practices: 

**SEO:** Moz, Distilled, SEOGadget, Search Engine Land

**PPC:** PPC Hero, Search Engine Land

**Social Media:** Social Media Examiner, Social Media Today

**Content:** Hubspot
I too am interested in this advice.
1- Pick an area (Social media, paid ads, seo, email, etc...) 

2- learn how to do it well if you don’t know how

3- put together a quick site and some packages

4- start letting people know the service you are offering


I just finished my digital marketing agency website. I'm looking for business partners to collaborate with. If you're interested send me a line.
If you're good with strategy part, go for social media strategy. 

If you are good with numbers, for for analytics and insights. Like Google analytics, social media analysis, reports.
Great points. I follow most, but not all, of them! I will check those out. 
Hubspot has a great blog and newsletter on these topics.
I don't follow anything because most of the people talking are either talking common sense or don't know what they are talking at all. 

That said, i usually read an article or 2 from search engine journal. 
Following.

I’m not sure why, but I feel like it’s hard to find a good group. Although I really like this one. Most of my LinkedIn groups have died down over the years and now are just spammy.

Here’s what I’ve found to be helpful:

Social media: social media examiner podcast and Facebook page

SEO/email marketing/web: Neil Patel (I like his YouTube videos)

Free online training: HubSpot

Paid training: Boot Camp Digital (Full disclosure - I did some work with them. But I’m a big fan of their program.)

Online Community: Reddit 

One thing I did that I found helpful is to look for big marketing conferences and check out the speakers. If any of their bios speak to you, check out the content they post online. You might find their community helpful.

OK, I have lots of thoughts about this!

[https://blog.hubspot.com/](https://blog.hubspot.com/) (This is where I learned a lot of what I do. HubSpot is a fantastic resource.)

[https://contentmarketinginstitute.com/blog/](https://contentmarketinginstitute.com/blog/) (CMI's blog is a must-read.)

[https://www.impactbnd.com](https://www.impactbnd.com) (Full disclosure, I'm the Director of Web & Interactive Content at IMPACT, but our sole focus as a publisher is digital marketing news, insights, and expertise. That's the only reason I'm mentioning it.)

[https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/inbound-success-podcast/id1277969726?mt=2](https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/inbound-success-podcast/id1277969726?mt=2) Inbound Success Podcast, weekly interviews with industry experts to talk about how they find digital marketing success.

[https://itunes.apple.com/ca/podcast/call-to-action/id961168554?mt=2](https://itunes.apple.com/ca/podcast/call-to-action/id961168554?mt=2) Call to Action Podcast by Unbounce

[https://www.hubspot.com/podcasts/skill-up](https://www.hubspot.com/podcasts/skill-up) Skill up by HubSpot is one of my favorites. It's a limited series run that's about SEO, but they do a great job of being comprehensive about what works now, what used to work and no longer does, and why things are the way they are in the world of search. 

I know you didn't mention books, but there are a few that have really influenced me as a digital marketer that are still relevant:

[https://www.amazon.com/They-Ask-You-Answer-Revolutionary/dp/1119312973/](https://www.amazon.com/They-Ask-You-Answer-Revolutionary/dp/1119312973/) (This book blew my mind when I first read it, and I still recommend this to every single digital marketer I meet who hasn't read it; it's that important.)

[https://www.amazon.com/Inbound-Content-Step-Step-Marketing/dp/1119488958](https://www.amazon.com/Inbound-Content-Step-Step-Marketing/dp/1119488958) (Just a great tactical book on creating inbound content in a way that's sustainable and also in-line with what's working today. Justin Champion really knows his stuff.)

Other books I'd recommend:

[https://www.amazon.com/Killing-Marketing-Innovative-Businesses-Turning/dp/1260026426/](https://www.amazon.com/Killing-Marketing-Innovative-Businesses-Turning/dp/1260026426/)

[https://www.amazon.com/Everybody-Writes-Go-Creating-Ridiculously/dp/1118905555/](https://www.amazon.com/Everybody-Writes-Go-Creating-Ridiculously/dp/1118905555/)

[https://www.amazon.com/Epic-Content-Marketing-Different-Customers/dp/0071819894/](https://www.amazon.com/Epic-Content-Marketing-Different-Customers/dp/0071819894/)

[https://www.amazon.com/Content-Inc-Entrepreneurs-Successful-Businesses/dp/125958965X/](https://www.amazon.com/Content-Inc-Entrepreneurs-Successful-Businesses/dp/125958965X/)

&#x200B;
You can subscribe to Google Best Practices email list, that's pretty helpful [https://getsubscriptions.withgoogle.com/newsletter/best-practices/signup](https://getsubscriptions.withgoogle.com/newsletter/best-practices/signup)

&#x200B;

I also like Hannapin Marketing's webinars and other resources. Also, a few to follow on Twitter: Larry Kim, Rand Fishkin, JD Prater
Following this!
Digitalmarketer.com

Social Minds by Social Chain is great. 

  
Skill share is worth a look if you want to learn and explore more digital marketing skills.
I am currently subscribed to Hubspot, Search Engine Watch, SEO Hacker and Backlinko. All of which send out both quality articles and sometimes some utter rubbish. However it let's me see the industry from a range of different perspectives and lets me see what other people are doing. 
I personally like {grow}, Mark Schafer's blog. It's a mixture of inspirational and educational stuff but some of the articles have affected how I approach a marketing problem or made me consider a different strategy. Also very fun/easy to read.
I Google and individually select sources for each topic. Haven't found a specific sources I would prefer.
Hubspot and Google ads and analytics 
Not free, but check out **RedditGuru.com**

Your mind will get blown 
Check backlinko for SEO
Wordsteam for social media

These are not really courses but ultimates guides.

I signed up for a 30 day trial on audible and downloaded Garry V’s “Crushing it” book. It’s a trove of information about social media marketing that I find fascinating. 
Well there are plenty of online courses for Digital Marketing, but as you are asking for Free courses, so the best destination would be YouTube. You can find lot of free tutorials and videos there on Digital Marketing.
Hubspot, Udemy, Academy for ads and YouTube ...etc are the best websites to learn digital marketing...
Google text ad spend decreasing but dynamic search ads and responsive search ads increasing. 

Doesn’t mean less spending on google ads, just mean people are moving away from text ads and moving toward dynamic and responsive.
ppc will never be gone until Google is gone. 70% of their revenue comes from Google ads.
More conversational marketing
Really interesting insights. Thanks for sharing OP. It has got me excited to be honest.
Thanks for the sharing.....

 \* Voice Search also trends in Digital Marketing
As someone working in the industry for (maybe too) many years this year's trend seems to be going back to basics.

As everyone is competing for the best ad palcement, if you don't get it you have to start making the most out of what you get so making campaigns things that are actually good and engaging while making the most out of what you have will be the "trend".

&#x200B;

That an personalisation through behavioural tareting using predictive analytics to create these campaigns in the first place..haha
 

*- DuckDuckGo outpacing other search engines in terms of growth, but still relatively small* 

&#x200B;

The growth has been rapid and exponential. It's obvious why.  If the founder said he was going to take on the Gaints, who would have not made fun of him.
Local ads in GMB and maps. Bar and restaurants will have to utilize these. 
Machine learning and deep learning - it will help with cross media attribution modeling so we can find out what works (with reasonable accuracy of > 50%).
Geolocational marketing. I know it can be "scary" for some people, but pulling up to a gas station and getting a notification for deals or coupons based on frequent purchases is awesome. 
Voice activated ads. This has has a lot of potential for brands to communicate on a whole new level.


The increased implementation of AI in database vendors like ZoomInfo. This will be absolutely huge for targeting if they are able to keep the database up-to-date in real time. Right now I find most of the large databases to be totally useless.
Verge3D, this is totally a game-changer in e-commerce. 
well, if you are experienced enough to take everything with a grain of salt. For example I do SEO\\content marketing and wonder how YouTube marketing works -so I go to Udemy to get a high level overview. At the end of the day is all about practice, not watching courses. But they do help with directions and some frameworks
These marketing courses are like 1000$, whereas udemy is like 9$. Curious to know too because I can code pretty well and have lots of in the technical side of things
i am majoring in digital marketing at my university.

I wouldn't say blow thousands but take some online or local classes when you can.  Some places offer free HTML/CSS classes and such.  Even if you learn one new thing that makes you that much better at what you do!
It depends on where you're at in your digital marketing career. If you're just starting out and need a comprehensive overview courses do come in handy. If you're looking to up skill courses do help to.

But if you don't put what you learn into practice, it really is counter productive. I personally bought a few courses from Udemy when I was starting out and it helped get me up to speed with my more experienced colleagues 
Honestly it depends on what kind of digital marketing you’d like to get into. I’ve heard good things about cereal entrepreneur’s course “digital marketing school” and it’s not too expensive. Not sponsored - I’m looking at taking it since it covers the big picture of running an agency and is reasonably priced at around $500 or a payment plan of $180 ish monthly for a couple months. I’ve been doing more freelance work for businesses for a while, and recently set up the framework for an actual agency. I think this course would be a good next step for me personally to further my knowledge. 

I’ve taken a couple other ones, and the best thing I’d say is to look around on YouTube for the kind of marketing you want to learn about. There’s a lot of free info to help you out, and a couple people that stand out are cereal entrepreneur and Ruan Marinho for not flaunting wealth and providing lots of good content. Cereal does a lot of social media marketing and Ruan is more focused on SEO. (Pretty sure Cereal’s course features Ruan for some SEO training)

Unfortunately I spent a good amount of money on a course that wasn’t really all it cracked up to be. It covered mainly Facebook ads, landing pages, email marketing, and did have some good templates for getting clients and ad campaign targeting for different niches. The bright side though was that it helped me dip my toes into digital marketing, led to making the jump to quit my 9-5 I hated, and working for myself. So it worked out I guess.

If you’re looking at affiliate marketing, be warned that people like to flaunt and be showy about what they’re making and doing. Buuut some good people nonetheless would be ODi Productions, Marissa Romero, Affiliate Marketing Dude, and Franklin Hatchett. Franklin Hatchett has a good video on making an affiliate website for free with Wordpress & driving some free traffic to it to bring in some extra cash quickly. I have followed it and set up the sites, but haven’t actually put in the time to write the articles and drive traffic as I’ve been busy on working on other things. 

TLDR: Check out the SWEPS checklist on cereal entrepreneur’s website for a good starting point and Ruan Marinho’s channel for some SEO basics and easy to implement tips. Then do some more of your own research on what aspects you like and want to learn more about. It all depends on what direction you want to go in.

And be sure to take my and others advice with a grain of salt - I’m not sponsored but a lot of people are just peddling not-so-good products for a quick buck.
Answer could be 'Yes' & answer could be a 'No' too because at the end of the day you would be only responsible for your growth. 

There are many institutes you will teach you everything related to digital marketing as per their pre-defined courses & lectures.  But it will totally depend on you that how much are you grabbing that knowledge. 

&#x200B;

As per my suggestion, join any digital marketing institute near your home & practice everything at your own after the class. 

&#x200B;

Good luck !!!

&#x200B;
Anything I want to learn, I check udemy first 
Yes. It is worth it.

IF

You are the type of person who can improve yourself through watching videos online. 

IF

You are the person who takes things you learn and put it into action.

Then yes. They are worth it. But, you will only learn where to start. The real learning comes from using it, day in and day out. 

you can get some free and paid courses on udemy. watch them and make your base of concepts strong then start doing practical by your own.
Amazon Advertising will make it a three-way ads race along with Google and Facebook. 
Voice search will be huge. It's reshaping SEO. 
Micro-moments marketing will rock the stage in 2019. Micro-moments are the new type of customer behavior. Customers mostly use their devices such as phones to find something they want and Google tracks it within a span of seconds and displays them the required results.

Google's micro-moments include  I-want-to-know moment, I-want-to-go-moment, I-want-to-buy moment  and  I-want-to-do moment . You can track this customer behavior with Google Maps, YouTube, Amazon, etc.
 

A few trends I think we’ll see in 2019:

1. Higher Quality Content: the internet has become saturated with content. Everyone has a blog. It will take more and more to stand out and get noticed.
2. More Paid Advertising: Because of the above, people who have strayed from paid ads will begin to delve into them. Because of the saturation, many will have to pay to play.
3. Chatbots: will continue to grow in popularity and usage cases.
4.  These days, social media is the new arena of digital marketers, as 3.3 billion people are active social media users.  So, more billions of users in 2019
5. Voice Search which is considered as main. More people use voice search devices like Alexa and many more. 
Worst super bowl ads ever 
Digital marketers who look for underserved markets can make millions and millions of pounds/dollars. 

Keywords will still matter. 
Voice search and chat-bot appliances with visual display become more common and ubiquitous in the home and out of home as well.


Links will be still important as well as extremely well-researched content. Here I can add the trend for video content for sure.
higher cost per clicks on google.
Video content 
More shitty Digital Marketing agency startups that want money and retainers and don’t know crap about marketing.
That sounds awful and is my #1 fear with looking for marketing jobs at bigger companies. I think you would be a better fit at a smaller company as an in-house “jack of all trades” marketing guy/gal. Or maybe even a freelance marketing consultant. Most large companies are filled with bureaucracy and red tape because there are so many moving parts, checks and balances, and outdated processes in place. Oftentimes, managers would rather sign off on what’s in their best interest or what makes them look good over what’s really best for the company or their team members. That’s what happens when a company gets too big for its own good.
Sounds like you have a junior role with a company that has a lot of red tape.

Change jobs, especially if you think you only need to work for 1 hour out of your working day. In house roles should revolve around short & longterm strategy and implementing said strategy, not "optimise my SEO" in 15 mins, which would set alarm bells off for any manager.

Also, viral =/ business success, which is probably why your company isn't that pushed about it.
Apologies about the grammar. Typed this on the train for 3 mins
It's all air-time.
Bigger corporate companies or younger companies running out of liquidity are gonna be running scared. Younger companies with good cashflow will let you test and run freely. SEO is the scariest thing for bigger companies because attribution is very difficult and if they dont understand it they're going to be skeptical. 
What are you doing to optimize SEO in 15 minutes? I've been out of the SEO game for a while but want to start getting back into the swing of things for our website. Where's a good place to become familiar with best, new SEO practices?
"looking for keywords is now a skill."

When I look for keywords, I analyze 1 million rows of data at a time.
Client side opinion from my own experience: 

Smaller companies want to know why it’s important and what you do. 

Larger companies want to know the key numbers and how you can add value.

The change I suggest for larger companies is stop talking effort and start talking benefit. 
Outcomes, not inputs. 

Bigger companies have heard all that shit a bazillion times. And the people you are talking to are a bit more savvy , so the black box of magic routine has no power.

Pitch a plan

Work the plan

Show results
Any chance I could bother you for a bit more info on your toolset and how you put it together? 
Answer this clearly:

- What can you do for me
- Why I need it
- Why you
- Prove it
- How can I get it (give me something easy to say yes to)
Play up their pain points (personally and as a business).  
If it isn't the CEO but the Marketing Director at a larger business show and demonstrate the value he can then communicate to his boss (and take the credit).  


Have actual numbers and valid results of how it improved their business. Cool so you improved their page speed/google ranking etc. WTF did that change in terms of customers/revenue/ etc.  


Competitor research. If you attack a certain industry you are doing audits of 10-15 of those companies right?  If a few of them are doing it well already (either with you or independently) talk about that and evoke jealousy or the FOMO on your lead.   
It seems a bit dodgy, but nobody got fired by copying their biggest competitor/doing more than them. They often do for missing out on what those competitors are doing.   

I like to take their presumed keywords (usually their "services offered") and compile a 10-15 word keyword ranking report to show them exactly where they are using FAT Rank (nifty little Chrome extension).   


Also, I'll DM you an SEO audit tool that we made that will give you a \~20 page report so you can look like you did a fuckton of research.
Your current salary + 30% is fairly common; the 30% accounts for you doing your own HR, tax, marketing, etc.

As a day rate, that would be $400.
dont charge for your time. charge for the value you will bring to your clients
Did the same thing last year. Totally undervalued myself just to get the gig for some extra vacation money. Value your skill set. They are lucky to get your services.

* Agree on a project scope, including what you will be and won't be doing. I thought I was designing a website for them, they thought I was writing all of the content, too. Clarify, clarify, clarify.
* Agree on timetables, because if you're not in-house it's very easy to let deadlines stretch out for months longer than you planned.
* Agree on decision makers, making sure you know who you report to and who can greenlight monetary spends. If they aren't clear on that, you'll be in for a world of hurt.

Are you thinking of consulting for them on a continuous basis? Or for a specific project? I'd bid total cost on a project, but hourly for a continuous gig.  


Good luck!
You can do a project based or a hour based contracts. You sound like you have things to offer.

It seems like you have $40 per hour. I would go for the money that your company charge for that kind of service and cut that in a half, so you will be providing a better value for that money. I am thinking about hour charge of your company would be somewhere around $150 so you should be doubling your hour salary with $75/hour. I don't know your company charges, can you tell them?
Hey sorry to bother you but what do I have to study to have a position that you are in? Where can I find this information? What books should I read? Any YouTube channels or blogs I should checkout? It’s hard to look for credible sources because most people are trying to sell their version of material. Any insight will be helpful. Thanks. 
Another model you could try following is a lower base fee (hourly or per-day) + commission on sale generated? But you'll need a good method of tracking that the sale is attributed back to you through the funnel. 
Set monthly management fee +15% commission.

Because the higher the ad spend, the harder it is to get new leads from the same audience.
$2000 a month for up to X hours, anything over that is $150/h. No commission, gets messy with tracking, honesty, longevity, etc
Commenting to get a clear answer since I’m curious as well.
I used a good one called the 1 in 12 digital marketing guide from Udemy.com.

I remember a recent post in this sub asking the same question as you too however so try finding that! It had a ton of helpful comments recommending some great sources!

All the best bud :) 
The first guy I learned from learned everything he knew from Udemy courses. For me personally hands on experience has been the best way to learn. I emailed every marketing agency in the area, even the ones without open positions posted and eventually got hired in an entry level spot where they taught me a ton. 
Try Google Digital Garage, HubSpot Academy & Facebook's Blueprint (also covers Instagram) as starting points.

Once you've figured out from the above which area(s) of marketing interest you most, look for more specialist courses.

Would also recommend if you're not already working in the field, start a simple website to practice what you're learning. Best way to learn (and remember what you're learning) is to start applying the knowledge.
I don't think they should start with Facebook Ads. They are expensive until you have enough traffic that the retargeting is cost effective. They should start with Google Ads (probably) and Email Marketing. 
First off, why is every new post in here immediately downvoted? The question may be something you think is dumb but maybe it'll help others out.

So a few things. It sounds like this is a client to just move away from. I'd tell him, look we need to test everything. I will test both simultaneously, along with different targeting, age groups etc., and whichever does the best we will put more budget into. Obviously the ones that aren't working, we will turn off.

You should never decided between FB or IG without testing. Either way it usually boils down to who the target audience is. Age is a huge factor.
The great thing is Facebook owns Instagram, there is a lot more bang for his buck when he runs ads simultaneously on FB and IG. FB hits a demographic of Millennials and Generation X. While Instagram hits more Generation Z. A good selling point could show him the benefits of running an AD on FB and IG at the same time, while testing you could do a 2 day AD for $20- $50 just to see where the engagement hits. In the long run this will be better for both your client and you when producing more of his ADs. 
Videos and/or Promotion ($x off or x% off first order - they have to show ad to redeem). That will immediately show your client ROI 
I'd explain to him there is no downside to testing Facebook when you're setting up your ads. Try to convince him to do a short test and provide him a side by side report that includes your key metrics so you can make an educated decision.

As the others have mentioned, if FB fits into your target audience, it's worth a test.
Use google ads, target location should be a radius of 3-4 miles around the restaurant. Use keywords like "best smoothie near me" or name of the location. 
I find this sub is a lot more questions then answers. You're right though, we should be sharing more. Insights such as our weekly readings or solutions to interesting problems could be a good communal start.
As someone who is just starting in this field, (theoretical knowledge/google certified experience) the behavior you describe is definitely noticeable, and discouraging to participation.

I've often sought out answers to questions elsewhere because of this, which is odd, because reddit is typically the go-to place when i have questions regarding a specific niche category.

There are a few nuggets of wisdom here...Overall, it seems like large groups of digital marketers are deathly paranoid that people will steal their job, and down vote anything posted here to oblivion. o_O
One love
There are no responses here, but it's a good question.

Did you get any suggestions elsewhere? What did you end up reading, if you don't mind me asking?
I'd like to know as well
Really love this write-up, including the metaphor! Top one👌🏼
Blasphemy! Heretics!
Awesome piece. 

Priests demand more wisdom of light.
I don't mean to be a "heretic" but I think one of the biggest things lost is "what is acceptable content" & "real SEO."  You could ask one SEO'er and they will scream to the gods: it is "long form content with 3K plus words on a page", another may say "Q & A style!". The fact is many posts are all about what "Google wants you to do".  But then there is the reality of what you should really be doing.

&#x200B;

You have the "purists" that follow the holy grail of the "google bible", then you have the "sinners", the ones figuring out the real truth behind the church.  In the end, the balance needs to be found between the two, because to be honest, going full religious fanatic will actually yield you very little results.

&#x200B;

There are hundreds of thousands if not millions of websites all trying to be perfect google angels, when in reality, it is the demons reaping the benefits, faster & quicker.

&#x200B;

I am sure many want to follow the church of Google by its written word, but we all know the real secret for SEO is what is in the dark corners & shadows.   The things the church does not want you to really know.  😉
I like the way you explain everything.keep going
This one is easy. Here’s something I did about a year ago. 

I unfollowed all the useless shit. I unfollowed the meme pages, sports, celebrity’s, trash news, etc. I kept only my close friends, family, co-workers. Most importantly, I followed successful entrepreneurs, motivational speakers, brands I want to gain inspiration from, financial advice, etc. 

Social media often gets a bad rep. But it’s not social media, it’s the people and the things you follow. Your phone (and subsequently, social media) counts as one of the five people your spend the most time with in your life. This means you’re greatly impacted by the things you do on your phone. 

Create your social media environment into something constructive. Since I did this, I actually spend far less time on social media. I’m not always in the mood to scroll through my timeline anymore. But that’s a good thing. 

Time to detox your following. Hope this helps. 
Not necessarily, but it helps to keep up on trends, platform updates, etc.
I am a digital marketing manager and it depends on which aspect of digital marketing you want to work in. If you want to paid media then yes, need to understand how social works and purchased. Or if you want to go into analytics, you may need to know how the data works for social media. Or you can go into ad ops (just implementing campaigns) or go into strategy. Don’t need to know a whole bunch but just how it is used for the overall strategy of the brand. But still nice to know. 
Not all jobs in digial marketing will require you to be involved in much social media. However it is important for a few reasons:

-When you build buyer personas, it's easy to connect and target them on social media strategically.
-Social listening for competitors or what industry people are saying
-Paid social, getting content, resources, products, and services in front of people and building brand awareness.

Posting and building social accounts is a pain and something I dislike, but I do the above often and is beneficial.

But you can get more specialized if you'd rather like SEO/SEM, email marketing, marketing automation, Google AdWords, Content Marketing, analytics, or you can do a mix of all. Really depends what you like and are looking to focus on. 
I've worked in social media for about 10 years now, and there's a couple of things to remember here:

1: you don't *have* to do anything. You should be using the channels that are most appropriate/most profitable for your business. On social in particular, people think they have to be everywhere,  and keep pumping out content all the time. You could just as easily put one ad on Facebook and keep it running for 3 months, and do nothing else. If it works, it works. 

2: social for business is not like social for personal use. Your audience may behave in ways that are completely contrary to the way you behave on social. Use numbers and analytics to see what works. If it is for a business, then social media should always have a clear tie to your business - whether thats a product, a service, facilities, people... social should be messaging that you have a clear reason for putting out, and thatnprovides specific value for the customer. You don't even need to follow any other sources if you don't want to, as long as what you are doing makes sense and has a clear objective. 

3: a coupke of people have already said this, but if you want to be on it personally, use it as a tool for learning. Follow experts in the field of digital (go check out some marketing sites, see who writes fir them, then see who those writers follow). There are still useful, interesting groups of people that you can learn from. You don't have to be putting stuff out yourself if you don't want to though.
Hell no. I've been an affiliate marketer that specializes in email marketing for over 11 years and I've won awards in the industry and I'm a 7 figure earner and my Instagram account has maybe two hundred people. While social media can be an effective tool nothing beats knowing you make x amount of dollars spending x amount of dollars and that just won't happen with posting on social media. Hit me up if you want to learn more but the basics are this dot-dot-dot I collect large email address list through digital marketing I offset my ad cost wall collecting those people at the same time and I monetize it further through email marketing. Most times I post on here I got some haters but the truth is the whole bunch of us that make really good livings doing digital marketing... And we are not influencers and we have been doing this for a long time.
You have to have an incredible understanding of social media and it’s intricacies, as well as trends and sudden changes of tech and direction, because social media is what drives digital marketing trends. 

You need to be aware of how social is doing, what’s working and engaging, new tech, otherwise your marketing will be dated. 

Use social media with the above in mind, see every post in a sense of marketing and business and how it can impact your marketing campaigns. It makes it less of a drag. :) 
Choose an industry you'd like to enter first, a great way of making a fist impression is going up to local businesses with incomplete/absent Google maps listings and helping them with a quick Google my business account. That way you'll give them a taste of what you can offer and establish value.
Why don't you make some slide presentations about how big companies are dealing with social media and how you can help peoples business with your ability and skills on social media marketing. 

&#x200B;

It would definitely help.
Not to be mean, but who do you think you can help? Do you have professional experience helping these sorts of companies?
Lead with value.

&#x200B;

One of the best ways to do this is 'lumpy mail'. When I first started I would record a video of me auditing their social media and then put it on a flash drive and mail it to them in a gold padded envelope. 

&#x200B;

Then follow up with a phone call.
What does having a lot of followers have to do with being a credible social marketer?

Nothing. Follower count doesn't matter.

Teach local businesses that and use the conversation to open doors.
1. Quality content
2. Multi-level entry into a funnel
3. ...
4. Profit
1. Analyzing your competitors' funnel(Use "similar web" to get basic ideas, combine with "Ahrefs")
2. Bring valuable content to your customers
3. Video content
4. Social ads (Linkedin ads, Quora ads)

Hope it will help you in some way!
1. try reaching out beyond your existing audience
   1. blast EDM via local publications -- reaching out to their audience base, not yours
   2. you can try guest posting too
2. thought leadership, i.e. speaking at conferences/workshops
3. accelerator programs and pitching competitions
4. feature clients' success stories and ask them to help publicize it
5. LinkedIn groups and LinkedIn articles
Linkedin content

Linkedin ads
What does B2B stand for? Sorry, I’m new in this area.
What digital marketers do is find ways to drive traffic to websites and generate leads for businesses. It revolves around driving traffic to/through a marketing funnel, which is the process that brings them to the website/landing page, which has whatever product or service they are looking for.

There’s different ways to do this, including running paid ads to drive traffic through the marketing funnel. Search engine optimization and content strategy to build up your website’s authority is also big for getting organic traffic and building trust with your audience. And social media engagement is another way to provide value to potential clients. Paid fb ads is something different but also a powerful way to reach targeted audiences.

But basically, they use different channels (google, bing, fb/Instagram, and whatever else)  to get people who could be interested in a potential product/service to the website that can help serve them. Also optimizing the website to handle all the incoming traffic is a big part of it too.

Digital marketing can mean doing a lot of things, but it mostly runs as a parts of the overall strategy of driving traffic through the funnel to get them to buy the product or service. If the people aren’t ready to buy yet, then the content strategy,including blog posts as part of an SEO campaign, is a great way to build trust with people and makes them more likely to trust and buy from you in the future. Managing paid ads through a variety of different platforms/channels is also a big part of it. There is more advanced and in depth stuff, but I think this is enough information for one post 😅
I'm one of them and I just press buttons & watch my screen change colors.
Advertising things (digital or physical) in the digital era. That’s the gist of it.


We like to consume free content online and the digital marketers use that in their favor. If let’s say you love a cooking YouTube channel or blog and you consume their content the chances of you actually buying something from them is very high.

And differently from big companies, those content creator usually are targeting a very specific niche, so it’s easier to build up confidence and increase the chances of selling their products.
Marketing is an important part of any business. If the marketing is low of any business than the business is not going to sustain no matter how much money he/she invests. A **digital marketer** is responsible for developing, implementing and managing marketing campaigns that promote a company’s products or services. 
Basically, make people know tour brand, go to your site (to learn about it) or sell product and services online
Hey Fella, 

I am working as Digital Marketer in a US based software house and I am responsible for planning, management and execution of marketing strategies for the assigned brand and day-to-day operations of different marketing functions. 

**My Core Responsibilities & Duties:**

* From SEO Optimization to Social Media Marketing including Paid and Free for Facebook, Twitter, Linkedin, Instagram, Pinterest. 
* Website Analysis and Audit to find the loop holes, fixing errors to improve the website performance.
* Managing and monitoring email marketing campaigns, sending newsletters and other marketing materials.
* Paid Advertising on Google including Google Shopping, Text Ads, Display Advertising 
* Liaise between content writers, web development, SEO/Link Builder, Graphic Designers Teams to increase user experience
* Weekly / Monthly reporting on task progress and overall personal progress. 

If you need any type of help or looking for Digital Marketing Expert, then don't hesitate to PM Me. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Digital Marketing is still new relatively. Digital marketers are responsible for developing online marketing strategy, design and write web content, promotional posts, communicating brand awareness and messages to online users. Gather data and generate analysis reports. 
I ask myself that question everyday. 

Source: digital marketer going on 15 years
in brief: relationship-based interactions with their customers in the digital domain
Not much.
Connecting the products/services with the buyers that want/need to buy them, via digital technologies.

It is quite simple when you think of it. 

What tends to be complicated is the strategy and the execution.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps. 
Digital marketing is branched out into several sub fields.

PPC and SEO guys spend a lot of time looking at spreadsheets.

Content people spend a lot of time writing and researching.

Social media guys also spend a fair amount of time looking at spreadsheets and on social media platforms.

It is essentially marketing (driving business growth by offering products/services in demand), using digital services.
The company what you chose for travelling, the plane you flew, all those decision you made while travelling is what Digital Marketers did to make you take that.
It used to be that people would just have a store and pass out fliers to get customers.  Maybe they would put an ad in the yellow pages, etc... 

Today online presence is the equivalent of owning a store front.  Image your "online brand" as that store.

Digital marketers can do a range of things to create that online presence from building a website that is constantly searchable by google (web building/SEO) to creating a social media presence that is equivalent to fliers and yellow page ads in today's market.  

A business owner could do all of this themselves, but often times a digital marketer has to manage 5+ social media accounts, 25 posts a day, regular search engine optimization updates, preventing spam/competitors of the business outdoing ads, and basic web IT all for one client.  

That's a lot to do if you have an entire business you're trying to run.
I get paid to annoy people online /s
We help companies sell there products or services online via promoting them through advertisements on google, facebook, twitter, pinterest, youtube, reddit, snapchat or through seo or email etc.

We choose different strategies to drive quality traffic to a website and understand the behaviour of the users on the website and try close the final goal.

Best part, you can measure every bit of it. Its all data driven!
Bullshit career
What proficiencies do you have now?

There are plenty of local laws for hiring people under 18, but digital marketing is very results driven, so maybe the big companies wont hire you, but someone will (if you have the experience/skillset).

Otherwise, stay in school, run your own campaigns.
There is a young guy on YouTube called James A. Brinker who runs his own digital marketing agency and I believe he’s 16-17. 

If he can do it I’m sure you can too OP! 

He might be worth searching even to get a feel for how he holds himself and speaks :) some of his videos are quite informative - all digital marketing based! :)

Best of luck! Would love to hear from you when you get your first client!! 
Hey man good on you it's a lucrative industry with tons of opportunity. even if you don't end up in digital long term it's an incredibly useful skill to have. 

Pick a niche and smash it. I wish I listened to this. We now do paid traffic for e-commerce stores only and it works better as people have more trust in this (we also run a branding agency on the side as a separate entity). Become an expert in one field and then expand. 

Always happy to spit ball ideas if you want, feel free to pm me 
Most businesses are looking for a good return to investment and don't care about age...
Meh there isn’t to much to running a digital agency or working for one.All these people getting degrees in PR and IT are going to be sorry.These skills are the norm whatever you do go for a bigger degree and out of digital agency.Just work at a agency and make some cash and leave.Advertising is a cow catcher nowadays.
If you start now, you will be ahead of the game. It would be hard getting an actual digital marketing role but if you can find a local shop that has no online visibility try working for them and building up their visibility online and getting results. Show that you can drive financial returns based on what you do online. Learning the skills and Portfolio building are everything at your stage.

So learn the skills online and implement whether helping a local shop or just starting something yourself.
Hi, take a look at my latest article: jakubjuszkiewicz.com/blog/how-to-get-into-digital-marketing

I am 21 years old and have 3 years of experience already
Hey man, depending where you live I know an apprenticeship may be a good route to go down, and if you already have skills then that's even better and increases your chance of getting hired. 

I'm currently on a Level 3 digital marketing apprenticeship, which lasts 13-15 months and results in workplace experience and a level 3 digital marketing qualification with the chance to either remain in full time work or progress onto a level 4 qualification. I'm not really doing it for the qualification too much but rather for the experience that will look good for the future when I'm looking to move forward in my career. Be that moving to a job with more responsibilities and better pay or starting my own agency. After all, the more experience you have the more likely you are to be hired as a freelance digital marketing agent by a larger corporate company. 

&#x200B;

This is always an option however as others have said, just continue learning as much as you can and seize and opportunities that are presented to you. 
My whole life revolves around marketing and digital marketing. From diploma to undergrad in Marketing and recently Masters in Marketing, it really is a great area to consider. Looking at the current marketing trends and digitalisation, the future does look bright. Don't worry about your age, you are starting fresh, try to get into any marketing firm and gain as much experience as you can. Within a few years, you will have the knowledge and confidence to move forward in the field. Age is just a number.

Good luck
Let them know you are willing to go to school for IT and you will have your spot in the light.
Best straight talk in this sub I have read.

>Unless you have a time machine to go back to 2008, you need to seriously re-evaluate your marketing plan if you think Facebook is still the "free" marketing platform it once was. Facebook's current algorithm and cost of ads has almost put it on par (probably even more expensive) than Google AdWords for many industries.

>If you haven't got at least $100 per month to be boosting the odd post, you shouldn't even be using Facebook.

Couldn't agree more with this point. I am currently working for a boutique recruitment form as a DM and we are running on a shoe string budget. What kind of organic strategies would you recommend for advertising our services? 
"So you're in Digital Marketing right? Can you fix my computer?"
'yes. email it over.'
Great insight for a rookie like myself. How did you originally get into digital marketing??
Great list, especially number four. People always want to put the cart before the horse. 
> So when will Google find this on my site?

This is something that you can control though. https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=submit+url+to+google&oq=submit+url+to+google&aqs=chrome..69i57j0l3j5.2106j0j1&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8 or fetch as google in search console. You can give a reasonable time estimate of a couple of hours using either. 
Smiling.  Now take what you've experienced and make it global: Just yesterday I got an angry, blaming email from Saudi that Google didn't immediately crawl the brand-new site, and yes it was submitted and yes, the SEO's in good shape (in Arabic to boot), and no I can't tell Google what to do.

Have you seen [Marketoonist](https://marketoonist.com/cartoons)?

Also, the facebook thing? As a consumer that hacks me off because there are a few businesses (like local restaurants) that I do want to see their offers and I have to override the settings to see their posts.
Great list. All the points are spot on, but particularly liked the last one (;
"We can fix the website later, lets just do this AdWords campaign first." 

Yikes, what a horrible waste of money

P.S (IDK HOW TO DO QUOTE STUFF ON HERE)
Working in a small company, people think I am the IT guy. People are surprised I can't fix servers! 
Made me laugh.. the struggle is real! Especially that last one. I'm not your IT guy! 
Not a blog or a podcast, but I love The Daily Carnage newsletter. I start my morning with it every day.

They also have a Facebook Group full of marketing pros that has been really helpful to me in the past when I need recommendations or advice.
Search engine journal, ad exchanger, ppc hero, and wordstream.
I like Unbounce's blog. Marketing Over Coffee is a solid podcast that helps me stay a little more up-to-date on tech.
KlientBoost.com blog and podcast
Mind your business podcast, adspresso, Jim Fortin Podcast (more mindset)
Found MarketingSherpa recently. A decent source for advanced marketers.
zest.is plugin for Google Chrome
Is there an app you guys use for blog updates or you just subscribe to them all old school?
Learn as much as you can about GA: It will always be valuable.

Find a mentor in this role who can give you weekly feedback. They should say "You handled this like X, and you should have done Y, and here's why." Get good at taking feedback.

Learn the difference between vanity marketing and metrics, and metrics that matter.

Watch Scott Galloway. Dive in head first, and put all of your energy into it.
Find a way to start buying ads on Facebook and AdWords. Try to get on a major DSP as well.
Learn as much as you can about GA but also business. What you do impacts a business at the end of the day. Once you master all the routine bits... start to figure out how to put in processes, automate and generally free up your time to take on bigger tasks.

Focus on today and tomorrow will take care of itself for work. You might want to do SEO, but you want to do something else once you start working. Never a bad idea to have a website to mess around.. I always had one going on when I started out. Gives you chance to do stuff you may can not do at work.   


Beyond learning as much as you can. Network as much as you can online and if you live in a decent size city....in person. Meeting people who work in marketing, data and across a business will help your career. I've gotten many jobs and opportunities by meeting people throughout my career..
Definitely be patient, learn everyday, take feedback, ask everybody with WHY - why we are doing this, why this, why that, and try to make some relationships with the people in the organisation. That's all that matter when you are an intern. Good luck buddy!
I worked in all. Agency, in house, and consulting. Great career with an overwhelming amount of channels and concepts. From technical SEO to blogging, there’s so many areas to specialize in.

Try to learn at least the basics of all, and see what interests you the most. If you can master technical marketing, the pay is significantly better.

If you can do both, you can start moving your way up the ranks fairly quickly. Just start slow and see where the path leads you. 

I love my career and that’s what I did!
Try to understand all the sides of digital marketing. Not just ads, but SEO, web dev, analytics. 

Ask "why" or "how" a lot. 

Ask your coach or supervisor if you can shadow people from different departments. 

Ask your coach if there's someone in the office who is outstanding and ask that person for their tips. Learn from them. 

Try to figure out what you don't like (it's just as important as discovering what you love!)

Lastly, and I cannot stress this enough, don't get too drunk at office parties. 
To learn as much as you can:

1. Copywriting (check out Ted Nicholas)
2. Content Strategy  (quality content, viral content, linkbait)
3. SEO (backlinks strategy using PR, google news)
4. UI/UX (desktop and mobile)
5. Google Analytics & Google webmaster tools
6. Google DFP
7. Conversion optimization
8. Business metrics (conversion rate/cost/revenue/profit
9. Email marketing
10. Online advertising (search, display, video, native)
Do all the google ads courses, they're free and you learn a lot. Definitely a good place to start. 
If your studies were non marketing related, go find an internship in the field of your degree. You don't seem like you'll be happy until you go where your passions will feed you. Work is work... but you're too young in your career to already feel this frustrated. Switch up before you settle in.
Send me an email

Johnroccofreed@gmail.com

I may have some courses you will find valuable. 

No.
You will pay tax on the earnings but not sales tax. I don’t think that is a county/state decision but a federal decision.  I could be wrong. I don’t charge sales tax on marketing services. 
You don't. You factor taxes into your hourly or retainer rate. 
Marketing campaigns you’ve worked on, screenshots/PDFs/Print outs of your work. I like to create one-sheets similar to case studies with the problem, my actions, and the results.
I never heard of digital marketers needing a portfolio - is this for your resume or your own agency? I am  not sure you need one - what you need is work experience and growth metrics.
Just be able to prove wins for customers.. best part of digital marketing... Results should be the only thing that matters...
My suggestion: Take a screenshot of the project you are starting to work on (it's Analytics and social media profiles) and compare it with the time when you have worked on the project after a while. that's a great portfolio.
You can create some case studies you have worked on achieved good results, PPT of your work and results.
Hi! HRcat here!

You should present some case studies, reports or analytics about the project you've worked for - it is important showcasing what was **your** part in it! If you had a role in the creative department then adding a great portfolio is a must. 

You can also create great and simple infographics to showcase what you can deliver - or your knowledge about a specific market.  

You're resume/ portfolio should showcase what attributes or skillset you bring to the desired company. If you are content oriented, showcase your writing skills. If you are more data-driven and that is your thing - than analytics should do the job.

No matter what you decide to showcase- make sure you are comfortable speaking about it! It should be yours! We had candidates that brought a booming portfolio, but with no knowledge to back it up - it doesn't hold for long in the interview.

&#x200B;

Good Luck Meow
Google Platinum has been really useful but shh...don't tell anyone.
There are very few secrets. Like any professional field it takes hard work over time to get results. If you're looking for a silver bullet you are most likely barking up the wrong tree.

That being said, I'll sell you my "Silver Bullet Secrets of Digital Marketing 2019" eBook for $997 (regularly $4997) if you really want. Your results are guaranteed!

/s
Not telling.
No secrets, all tools are publicly available. Not like you have to be on a special list to pay a software company to use their tool.

In my experience, the tools you need really depend on your industry/niche. Some tools might be really helpful for one industry but useless in another. 
Tealium
What kind of tools? Digital advertising is so wide there is so much out there. 

I don't think there are secret tools, but clients don't need to know every little detail so you might not explain everything to them but again that depends on the tools and the client.

Industry side, it shouldn't be any secret because all those companies are selling their products to everyone. Any SaaS tool won't be a secret if you do a Google. 

Real 'secret sauce' might be client focused companies who do develop internal tools and they sure aren't sharing. 
The secret... it's all powered by Excel...

Or the Microsoft office suite in general. Most used tool for data analysis... Excel. Dashboard, Excel (export to PDF). Budget tracking, Excel. Accounting, Excel. Project management, Outlook message threads. Gantt charts, Excel. Note system, Microsoft word. Password management, Excel. 360 Reviews, Word + Excel. Team collaboration, Word (though saved on share drive)... I encourage the community to add to the list..
'secret' tools don't exist, why would someone develop a tool and not publicise it? IMO it comes down to personal preference and ways of working. Also cost, some of the enterprise level tools are very expensive. 
Belated birthday wishes to you
No secret tools, must be secret strategies
Ahref, Moz, spyfu these are some tools which is publicaly available but you have to buy it and cost ratio is way high ...
Yes, some expertise's are refuse to tell tools like free email ids tools, used in email marketing, such as AutoPitch, MailChimp, Drip and etc. some lead generation tool like leadfuse, AutoPitch and etc.
Tealium
but about what you are talking here?
The Paypal Money generator. But you didn't hear it from me...
Hahaha
Understanding of data and keeping your ear on the ground.
I'm not connected to them, but Digital Marketer has some awesome training classes for beginner and intermediate level marketers.  I think their $99 per month DM Lab+ includes access to all their main courses (just Google "DM Lab+" as I don't want anyone here thinking I'm using an affiliate link ; )
Lynda.com has a bunch of courses that are awesome. You get a certificate at the end of each that you can reference.

Also, edX.org has some great courses. A lot of them you can go through for free as “audit.” Or choose to pay for the certificate.
hubspot has an entire academy that’s completely free and incredible. hootsuite also has free courses with certifications online that are very respected. 
So cool..I was a Graphic Designer too but shifted to Digital Marketing cause my keen interest was in Marketing using digital tools. So there are wide ways you can learn Digital Marketing but not limited to.!!!! The Best Courses & Certification are provided by : Google(Free), FB(Free), Twitter(Free), LinkedIn(Subscription Package)...You should start with Learning Fundamentals Concept of Marketing !!! Then going to Terms in BasicTerm in Digital Markets,SEO, Content Marketing, AdWords, Pages&Promotion !!! So I would suggest you to follow pathways provided by LinkedIn as it is much definitive way for a Marketing Course...And do read GaryVee's book :Crushing It...All The Best...Just Do it,!!! For more feel free to contact me in Msg
No matter whatever course you take whether it is Facebook, Instagram there is one thing that you need to know and practice, copywriting skills, without it, you will have very little success. Knowing how to create ads is one thing, know how to create ads and landing pages that convert is a whole different story. My suggestion is to get started with learning copywriting. When I first started SEO and created an affiliate site to review digital pianos, I was getting 35 to 50K visitors per month to my site but converting very few visitors to click to the merchant. I was at a turning point, Get more traffic or learn to convert the traffic I already had. I opted to learn to convert existing traffic and I am glad I did learn to write conversion copy. Talk to any experienced digital marketer and they will say the same.
Maybe as a copywriter. The skills in sales can be transferred to selling with text. 
One of my customers in my last startup was an over 50 re-training to be a digital marketer. He seemed to be doing fine and was able to get customers from local businesses around where he lived. 

If he can write well, then the rest is learnable. 

I'd recommend taking courses on Udacity or General Assembly but Udemy has some very good Google Ads or Facebook Marketing courses too. Armed with that knowledge and some skill in creating websites on Wix or Squarespace, he could indeed be fine. It'll take some time though.
There’s some great courses on Udemy. I got all the basics down from one called Digital Marketing Masterclass by Phil Ebiner. I’m in no way promoting him, I just managed to learn quite a bit from the course, but I’m sure that there are others out there that he can pick up. 

Apart from that, I think another thing that he can do to make himself more valuable to an employer would be to brush up on his business analytics skills. It’s pretty easy to get data and statistics for the digital marketing campaigns that you do nowadays, even if it just one video or a single blogpost, you can still get useful data on it, for e.g. how many people view it, how long is spent on an article, etc. 

With the content marketing skills, the ability to put up that content effectively on a digital space, and then to evaluate its performance through data, I’m sure your dad will do great. Hope this helps and hope that he finds a job very soon. All the best!

He could start in sales for large agencies. Too many agencies hire sales people without digital marketing knowledge. 
Sure he can... the most important thing is delivery. If he can gain enough real time experience and can get results nobody would care how old he is.. He should just focus on a particular niche and build up from there
I've had this conversation with a **sales** guy in his early 40's who wanted to move to digital marketing. Here is what I observed:

* He was unsure about what function in digital to pick up
* He did not seem self-confident enough about being able to learn

**Copywriting** is one of the most obvious choices but it is a good option only if he is quite frankly good at communication. So this would be depending upon the kind of organisations he worked for in his sales career. But then again, I'm guessing you're in India and getting copywriting gigs for a new to industry copywriter at 55 seems really hard.

What you could do for him is use your contacts to get freelance work and delegate bits and pieces of it to him. This would help him learn and get a little bit of self-confidence. Involve him in the thinking process even for the things that you decide to do yourself. For example, if you take up social media management, ask him for suggestions on what type of communication would fit into a certain content basket. Let him watch you flesh out what you guys discussed into an actual creative and a post. Gradually maybe he can take it over himself.

&#x200B;
Might he be interested in selling social media services or website design?  My DMs are open for discussion 
First, let me congratulate your dad for having the strength and the spirit to learn something new at this age. Admirable.

As the boundaries between digital marketing and sales are becoming less and less thin, meaning that companies now ask digital marketers to sell, you dad's sales experience could be proven to be his greatest asset.

To learn the trade he must:

1. UNLEARN how traditional sales work. Selling over the phone, face to face or hard selling (not saying he is selling this way, but I am mentioning it), is totally different from "selling" or marketing over the web, especially in the age of permission-based marketing and subtle marketing techniques.
2. He could transition easier if he moves from that field to learning direct response advertising. Books like  Scientific Advertising by Claude C. Hopkins, or The Ultimate Sales Letter by Dan Kennedy or even Ogilvy on Advertising (although this is very old but its advise is still relevant) will give him a good direction if this is what he wants to do.
3. As other people said here, the easiest most transferable skill would be to use his knowledge of selling into words, that is copywriting. Coupled with direct response advertising he could write copy for marketing agencies.
4. He also needs to specialise is an area, at first. If he could write, he could learn how Google Ads and Facebook ads work, so he can write copy that persuades.
5. As someone mentioned here, he could learn a few basic skills (Google has lessons on selling ads) and then seek employment at advertising agencies.

Unfortunately, the possibilities at digital marketing are endless, and can overwhelm someone. All you have to do is be supportive and explain him his options for that field.

If it was my dad, and I was sure he was exploring that path, then what I would do is call up a few agencies in the area, and ask if they could book a meeting with me and my dad to ask them a few questions about "a possible cooperation". 

To invoke the meeting I would say that my dad is unemployed and wants to see if they can sell for them in a commission-only basis. That would pick their interest to book a meeting. Upon being in the room I would tell them that my dad wants to enter the digital marketing space and then get their feedback.

Hope this helps!

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
He sure can, I was reading a story recently of an 80 something who makes apps and I thought that was awseome.
Selling hours is the fast way to talk about hours and not the outcome... more sales/customer/revenue.. that you want. I would not get paid on gross profit. What if they change the pricing of a product... profits go down and you make less. Either they pay you like an employee or they hire you as an agency. This comes across like they want the best of both worlds and you take a hit if anything goes wrong. An account could be anything.. if one account is more work, you get paid the same for that work vs another that is half the work. If they want to outsource to you. Then pay you like an agency.
Unless you are an analyst you won’t need to know any language. It’s good to know if you are, it’s a nice to know if you aren’t.
Data Science is almost entirely reserved for masters & PHD students. Not something I am saying is impossible for others, but one does not simply just use machine learning with out knowing what the hell they are doing. (basically what I am saying is that unless you are doing it full-time 40+ hours a week you are wasting your time although understanding how it works is definitely a good idea)

Also, what do you mean you are learning R to replace tableau? R is an object-oriented programming language. 

Tablaeu is just a data visualization software that runs querys (SQL) in the background with no coding involved. 

Edit: before anybody asks yes you can make graphs in R with libraris such as GGplot2, but that would be a nightmare to use as a digital marketer when there are so many better tools out there. 
Well... everyone has to start somewhere. So I’ll say yes you definitely can get a job with little to no experience so long as you look for entry level roles specifically in the coordinator/specialist positions. My agency took newbies with almost no knowledge and trained them into experts who went on to bigger and better companies. I think if you show them you have some background knowledge you’re at least familiar with concepts and landscapes but would need a job to apply those concepts in a real life setting. 

Getting certifications will help too like with Google Analytics and AdWords. It’ll show you have initiative to try but now just need the hands on experience. 

Good luck!
I’m in a similar boat, looking to transition to digital marketing from sales, taking courses and getting google ads/analytics certified in spare time but having trouble bootstrapping real experience for resume. I’m looking forward to responses. 

Good luck and congratulations on the forthcoming addition!
I got a job with about 9 month of freelance experience. I had four clients, a website and a few certificates in Google and Bing. I eventually started looking for full time gigs and got hired as an account manager within a month. I was also looking in NYC, so location def plays a role. I'm from a totally outside field but found I could emphasize my related experiences, like writing, editing, and public speaking. 
I did this. 
Would highly recommend looking into any and all internship opportunities in your area of interest. Some, if not most internships are paid these days and are offered to pretty much anyone regardless of education/experience. 

Also - find a great mentor that is doing exactly what you see yourself doing and learn from their experiences. 

Good luck! 
I had the same question I applied for for some entry level positions but didn't really make it came close once but that's it now I'm looking for Internships
Any interest in growth hacking, outbound email marketing/copywriting and automation tools?
Does your team need a Leroy Jenkins? ... I can be your Leroy Jenkins.
Ann is more like a melee dps with only one focus: to sell. Rogue is more suitable for her.

Amusing post,btw.
Was looking for hilarity as boss realizes the team he/she joined played WoW all night and stumbled in to work barely functioning. 
That's a great way of looking at it! Which one gets blamed for wipes?
Hey, new mod here. I'm On it. Please keep reporting to help me with clean up.

Thanks
Agreed. Definitely spent like 29 minutes today just reporting random shit posts and blatant self promotion. Including one guy who posted at least a dozen duplicate text posts with no content inside. 
The spam is ridiculous lately. 
Click to report the bad posts: that helps the mods out by flagging them.  I just now reported yet another SEO solicitation.

But in a different vein, I just got two unsolicited PMs this morning offering wares to me, both asking my to contact them via skype.  Now that's gone too far.
I agree, I hate all the spam on this sub. It prevents me from wanting to come here.
Couldn't agree more. Thank you for taking initiative on this issue. 
I’ve been doing it for 10 years without any certifications. I think proven results are what counts. I don’t think it’s affected my career. 

With or without certificates, your way into the field is to take a shitty entry level gig to get experience and get out ASAP.

While you’re job hunting, build your own website so you can have something to show. I’d never take a candidate seriously who didn’t have at least a one page site.
I’ve worked in Digital Marketing for 3 years . Just got promoted to Marketing Communications Manager.. 

I primarily do the following: 

- Maintain website content (CMS) 
- maintain social media channels / build social strategy
- Build and maintain email marketing campaigns 
- Coordinate marketing collateral materials for conferences with cross functional departments
- create marketing plans and timelines 
-oversee and manage brochure and print materials
- develop our marketing strategy along the different channels we utilize to reach our audience 

I would try to get in doing email marketing (that’s what I did) or as a Marketing Coordinator ... once you get the foot back in the door you’ll get all the exposure .. I started as a specialist and moved up. ..
 
I do track my data and I am implementing automation to ... all things you can learn on the job...
Definitely look at the Facebook blueprint courses. While you don’t need to take the exams (as each cost $150 and you need to take the core + either planning or buying exam), the online, free courses are helpful to understand strategies and basic terms for Facebook as quite a bit could have changed in two years.
I'm always so cautious of spending all this money on classes you think you need to be successful in digital marketing. It just isn't the case.. The internet is such an amazing source for anything, ESPECIALLY learning. And honestly, the BEST knowledge you can get, is just by doing it yourself. There is a difference in being taught what you THINK you need to know, and what you *actually* need to know.

&#x200B;

Learn the platforms. Don't rely on getting the "good stuff" from any of these online course. Do the research. Watch the trends. FREELANCE. Take internships. Create some free campaigns for family, friends, family friends, whomever, to learn what areas or industries you enjoy the most. The best thing you can learn from is failure in digital marketing. It is not easy in the field, and this is not to deter you. It's the honest (and sometimes crushing) truth. So when you get shut down over and over, or have unhappy clients, just remember, this is apart of the process and don't give up.

&#x200B;

**Valuable Assets to have in D.M.:**

1. VERY familiar with FB Ads Manager.
2. Being able to read the data and make data driven decisions using Google Analytics 
3. Google AdWords for your PPC. 
4. Photoshop for making your own ad creatives and graphics for whatever.
5. Premiere editing skills. Even if they are mid-tier. Being able to film and/or take prerecorded video, and make a little 30-45 second video clips for your campaigns is so valuable. Video ads are really starting to gain traction, so it's nice to be able to *spice* things up when refreshing your ads.
6. SEO, I guess. But that's gonna be a no from me, fam. Just not my thing. 

People want a "jack of all trades" these days in D.M.. Because if not, you have literally hire 6 vendors, and NO ONE likes having that many (overpriced) vendors. Good luck, bud. We'll see you out there. **And stop spending all that money on shitty online courses.**
Don't go for certifications. Best way to learn is just to do it & deploy campaigns. Employers want folks who could deliver value. Try volunteering at a non-profit in your spare time if you need experience.
I've been doing digital marketing for some time now. Only once I've been asked about a certificate (i think it was that Facebook blueprint someone was mentioning). And this one time I was applying for the career in one big agency. Clients care only about the experience and how can you make them some moneeeyyy! :D
I think with already skills you can become a designer.
You can start your own agency without college experience. So just proof of knowledge.
Certificates can help you land a job in the industry. Results will make you grow and stay in the industry
Honestly, none
Learn to sell. Cars, real estate, vacuum cleaners, digital ad campaigns... doesn’t matter. Actual practical experience getting verbally abused by customers who either don’t want it, or only want it if they can have it yesterday for half the price and in a different color will teach you more about how to advertise than 1000 hours watching udemy videos.
Every employer defines the roles different. None of these are good for a new employee in the industry.

Manager - usually manages camapign and all the employees working on it. I currently hold this role and I delegate tasks and meet with the client etc etc. (short version)

Strategists - does the research and helps identify who we are targeting and why and how that group will convert (short version)

Consultant - can do all of these or none depending on the level on consulting.

If you're new I would shoot for analyst and or coordinator. I would not hire ANYONE without at least 2 yrs experience. I have been in this industry for about ten years now and have seen plenty of people come and go. You need the experience with clients not just with the execution of the campaign. In my opinion that is where the value of experience comes in.

Feel free to PM if you have any other questions.
Usually all the roles are played by one and that is digital marketer. A digital marketer is a consultant because He/She gives advice or consult the clients about benefits of digital marketing and Digital marketing strategies are also prepared by digital marketer. In the end, Digital marketing activities are also handled by Digital marketer. In most companies this is the scenario but you can find in few companies that they assign these roles to different people.

&#x200B;

Digital marketing is a vast field which has many things like SEO, SMO, SEM, SMM, Content marketing, Understand the market etc. In the end I would like to say that a beginner should start from one by one.
This are different names used by companies based on their internal structure, strategist position is for someone who is hands on guy, while manager would manage team of strategist and manage the risk/reward generated by their work.

While consultant is normally external who i not employed on payroll he is paid for the hours or task done.  But as said it depends on companies to companies how they read and define titles.
As a few people have said those titles are a little more experienced than a beginner.  However, titles are so personal to the company that I rarely look at them (except to see if the word marketing or digital might be in there somewhere.)

&#x200B;

Look at the requirements for marketing - analyst, executive, marketer, assistant jobs. They often end up being the most common titles for people with little experience.

&#x200B;

And don't worry too much about the "digital" title. There are a few specialist titles for beginners like Social Media Assistant etc. Depends what your speciality (if you have one) is and most marketing jobs have at least an essence of "digital" these days. 
Didn’t really impact me too much, nothing I can’t do later on anyway. 

Another reason why we shouldn’t become dependant on any single platform and to diversify.
I didn’t, but I had to listen to my partner bitch bout it 
Facebook is cancer.
Just a dip in scale but we're evergreen so it wasn't that devastating. Also the API still works fine 
That was the longest outage I have experienced I believe. So glad it's up and running. Thankfully everyone has been super understanding.
Lol, oddly enough my day was WAY more productive.  

EDIT: Lol, I definitely didn't realize what sub this was at first.
But from facebook mobile app Iam still able to Manage campaigns
Not only facebook but instagram too 🙄
I turn off mobile completely.

Google doesn't let you filter out mobile apps any more (they changed that a few months ago).

So much fraud on the mobile apps, apps just built for click fraud. Even worse, they'll fake convert just so they can get more ads to click fraud.

I've talked to Google reps and they don't care. 
When it comes to mobile apps (like the calculator) CTR is high since people click it by mistake scrolling or trying to close the ad. You'll probably have really high bounce rates and if you're tracking landing page loads these will likely be a lot lower than the number of clicks. 
You’re smart to be skeptical of bad sites/apps, bots, etc. And It’s not just a GDN phenomenon. Good marketers are the ones paying attention and constantly updating their exclusions. Don’t expect any ad tech platform to protect you — be proactive.
Short answer, yes. Can't rely on Google whatsoever to eliminate waste. 
Yes, because of some mobile apps Google is struggling with clickfraud on its display network.
To me, a digital marketing progression imho: 1. has experience in developing, creating, and managing individual digital marketing platforms (adwords/fb, etc) to achieve a variety of outcomes 2. 1 + analyzing the data from those campaigns to improve them 3. 1+2 + Finds cross platform opportunities between them to achieve cross functional outcomes 4. 1+2+3+ uses the sum of their experiences to understand how digital marketing works on an individual level & cross platform level, eliminating nimieties. 5. Digital marketing strategist can deliver on 1-4 to almost any business
As for some suggestions, Yes, a lot comes down to data, but a strategist looks at logic, which is rhetorical math. I've been doing this for 4 years, and I graduated with a degree in philosophy. It helps break down the abstract/concrete and how they support each other, and how they differ. Everyone learns /what to think/ with a marketing degree.  You already know a lot of that, and if you don't go take FB Blueprint or whatever course. But in the real world, you need to learn /how to think/. You have good experience. But to me the time spent doing something is irrelevant (in most cases). 2 months managing 250k in ad spend for me may be more than 6 month of someone managing 25k. So stress the importance of the work you did.  This is all my opinion. I can't tell you anyone is right or wrong. I just know what works for me! Keep up the good work
To establish skills for a digital strategist role, Go buy digital marketer lab plus. It comes with a legit course in every digital marketing subject, and to be a strategist you need an understanding of everything.

PS I don’t work in the corporate world so I can’t speak for that, I run my own business, but that’s what I’d hire when it comes to hiring a digital marketing strategist
For PPC related trainings I recommend Surfside PPC : https://youtube.com/channel/UCEzSSbs3Wfe5p4dBzzjrjvw

To analyze your page, I advise MeasureSchool : https://youtube.com/channel/UClgihdkPzNDtuoQy4xDw5mA

SEO and Content is not my area but Moz's Whiteboards are good for introduction!
Have luck!
Jade darmawangsa! Really like her 🙈
Search for 

brian dean,

backlinko

Neil Patel
Search for Nail patel
I hope your suggestions are good, because youtube became very shitty place for many topics everyone is just trying to get your money out of your pocket
You could try measureschool
I’m glad you posted this. I’m in the same boat as you! 
There are a ton of free resources out there . If you really want to pay for something I'd suggest contacting someone who is an expert  and asking for a consultation or a 1 on 1 coaching session. Maybe record the session and make it available for the rest of your colleagues,that way you can justify buying a coaching session instead of a course.
There is no conference or course just for display advertising. That would be a topic in a couple or a session or two at a conference like HeroConf, SMX/ SMX Advanced or even BrightonSEO in the UK. You need to attend a conference that deals with PPC to meet people and the agenda might have something on display. At least going to the conference means you can network and chat with people are display.
Springboard is an amazing startup that offers high quality training programs. May be something to check out in addition to the more traditional stuff. Awesome benefit btw. 
Monthly - overall traffic from all sources

Monthly conversions - sales

Monthly on page & off page activity 
You can give important detail in excel sheet like keyword status, track the detail from Google analytic and take the screenshot in Win file, give the traffic status (Current month+previous month traffic) with the screenshot from analytic, Channel Traffic, Bounce Rate(%) and also New Visitors Vs Returning Visitors.
I usually run a monthly dashboard which is a spreadsheet which has traffic (separated by type) avg time on site, bounce rate, I also update monthly social channel stats, stats on email campiagns and then tie it in the bottom by reporting on conversions and sales. 

&#x200B;

Weekly if I am running PPC it is spend and traffic, if not then just basic traffic vs. sales/conversions numbers without all the details. 

 
We use Databox, it lets us set up dashboards with their data showing the relevant metrics per client (each dashboard we custom build.  


As for what data, top level is Users, on-site engagement metrics and e-commerce sales.  

We break down sales and engagements by source/medium and if we are running any campaigns, we also include campaign-related data.   
There is only one simple and easy answer just, show the traffic-related report, and don't forget to update the old one and new report. In this ways, Boss/Clients both can understand a progress in an easy way. 
Most of the industry operates off of this formula: media + management fee = budget

Some agencies have flat rates by platform, campaign, etc but are often smaller shops. 
You charge how much you need to survive. 

I recommended this before and it seemed to help a similar ask, helped me figure out pricing too. https://www.freshbooks.com/assets/other/Breaking-the-Time-Barrier.pdf
It's totally up to what you and your client are comfortable with. In some cases a flat fee is nice and you'll want to make sure you pay close attention to the time you invest so you're not investing to much. You could also do a percentage of their sales. This is usually more helpful for small businesses and freelancers but it can be dangerous it very rewarding. Lastly you could work based on an hourly rate. 
Monthly or hourly based are best way charge.. I will ask charges monthly for my clients and I will charge 30 to 40 percent of amount on which they would like to spend a month for digital marketing activity as services charges. 
Each of them have their own way of charging. 

We don't have any industry standard charges for digital marketing activity 
When I was doing freelancing work I used to be paid by the project.   
As soon as the initial steps of the projects are defined and a sensible forecast of the time it's going to take and predictable delays then your employer should come up with an offer. 
Following
Charge based on contract. It depends what you are doing but charging monthly is fairly standard. 
Flat fee works best for me, on a 6 month contract
I charge based on results

  
No results. The client owes me nothing.

&#x200B;

Results? I get a %
I have a monthly retainer or flat rate for single jobs. 
Personally I charge by the hour.
Retainer, ideally with a 6 month or year-long committment. Makes the headaches of the up's and down's of contracting so much more manageable when you're able to forecast your work.
I am working on hourly basis. I am expert in click funnel and facebook power editor.      
 Charge what you think is your value. Don t let anyone define your value, except you.
Google Adwords 
Google analytics
Facebook blueprint (although, you’ll have to pay for the certificate test). 
[removed]
HubSpot / Google Certs (Analytics and as many of the Ad(Words) you can manage) / FB Blueprint are the only ones I’d spend time on.

Sign up for a AdWords account, you’ll soon get a coupon for $100 credit if you can’t find one online, pick a small local business and help them out. Or better, promote your own blog etc - far better experience than just a certification. 
Get the HubSpot certifications and the Google certifications. Many who are doing digital marketing don't bother with these courses so you have a head start. These are no substitute for experience but it will help you familiarize with the tools when you actually start working.
Google Ads, Google Analytics, Google Webmaster

you can also learn Learn from MOZ, SEMrush
hey guys I have stumbled upon hootsuite academy certificates for digital marketing. Are they worth it? 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Uh yea just walk in a agency and deliver results.Forget all these credentials and resume crap.This is what I am going to do.To try and get a degree or “certificate” in social media and digital is preety useless and a waste of time.A agency is a dime a dozen don’t let them them make you believe anything different. At the end of the day they want experience or results so be sure to deliver 1 or another.I would much rather spend my time getting better certification or credentials in something more advanced and let all the knuckle heads get a degree in PR or marketing which is becoming more and more diluted.There is a huge misconception between having a track record and having a degree and I can tell you right now a track record is the new degree especially in digital advertising.
To graps the concept of digital marketing, the book Digital Marketing for Dummies by Russ Hennebery and Ryan Deiss covers a lot of the basic which is really important to start in this field.

You will learn about digital marketing funnel, tools, terms and concepts.
The Digital Marketing Certified Associate course from Market Motive... It's a long, but very very in depth course on many different avenues of digital marketing. There are video lectures, quizzes, worksheets to complete, and a real-world project. Probably the closest you can get to a college semester course on Digital Marketing. And it's mostly updated for 2018 as well.
Social media manager is a useless title. You’re a digital marketing manager. 

You’ve been underpaid since 2013. $27K is ridiculous for what you described. $50K is better but push for more. Don’t go into places saying you’ll work for $25 an hour because you shouldn’t be paid hourly at this point in your career. You’d still be underpaid at your ideal rate. 
Digital Marketing Manager. PPC is important, but not necessary for that title. 
5 years of experience and $15/hour? Are you in the united states? I have 6 years of experience and I won't even get out of bed for less than $60/hour, and that is the absolute minimum. You can command much more.

Also, don't get hung up on titles, it's literally the least important thing you have going on. Call yourself a Digital Marketing Manager and then focus on the benefits you offer the client.
You are certainly a digital marketer. A lot of focus on intergrated marketing as well. If you are designing, executing, and optimizing these campaigns then you should be charging a lot more. Just to give you a rough idea. Our social media coordinators make 45k as entry level and all they do is social. Our email marketers are paid 55-60k. Our content marketers are around 50-60k range. I focus more on high-level strategies, acquisitions, paid media, evergreen programs and I'm well near 6 figure range. Depending on your experience by years, you should be around 70k range minimum.
Very good question...Many times I also get confused with titles....
What I am? I also got clearity because of all ans...Thank you all
I work in a fairly large ad agency and I’m actually a hiring manager there. So I look at hundreds of resumes a year and am constantly going through job postings and classifieds for social media employees. “Specialist” is the industry parlance for someone who handles day to day management of social accounts. If you’re looking for the most accurate description for the position, not to mention if you’re trying to optimize your resume and Linkedin account for the job title that hiring managers like myself search for the most — trust me, that’s the title you want to use. 
“Specialist” or “Strategist” would be a better title than “Manager,” unless you actually managed people. 
1. Discuss any particular successes you’ve achieved in digital marketing campaigns, and how you achieved this (e.g. tactics you used for Google Ads, Facebook Ads, SEO). 

2. What has attracted to you to digital marketing, and how have you gone about learning and improving. I’m always impressed if candidates have their own freelance work, or help market their friends’ websites for the sake of learning - shows passion for digital, and is a better way to learn than being directly taught everything. 

3. Which social media experts and digital marketing companies do you follow on Twitter etc. 

4. What type of digital marketing are you most passionate about, e.g. the ‘technical SEO’ side of the scale covering Google Analytics, code etc, or the ‘creative side’, covering online advertising, organic social media campaigns. 
I have only one more tip to add to previous answers - be calm and confident.

Oh, and if you have some gaps in knowledge, read about it before the interview or if your portfolio doesn\`t look great, try to improve it (replacing cases or explaining them better). 
have you used google ads or fb?

give an example of how you would sell a certain product 
Go in and be honest about what you enjoy doing in digital marketing related to that job, and let them know what you’re eager to learn. Try to covey a specific skill you bring to the table that could make their lives easier and the agency more money. 

Be specific to having a passion for the type of work they do and don’t try to fake it. If you don’t know .... you want to learn.

- Have run my own Agency for 5 years and advise smaller agencies on how to succeed 


What would you like to see / learn?
Traffic and conversion summit - it’s amazing 
Anything by Russell Brunson. I think he has one coming up soon in SD. 
Pubcon. They have 3 conferences each year in Florida, Austin, TX and Vegas.
Ones I have spoken at and enjoyed... sample list:  


BrightonSEO

HeroConf

SMX & SMX Advanced

&#x200B;

Depends on what you are looking to learn of course and what your budget is.
Traffic and conversion in San Diego is awesome. Highly recommended 
Hubspot has quite a few certifications which'll fit your needs
EdX and Kaggle have some really great material to grow your experience with data. Not a ton in the digital marketing arena, but pretty robust data science and computer science stuff, which is helpful when working with datasets.

I realize that this isn't exactly answering your question about free certifications, but you can take any EdX course for free, then choose to pay for the certification if you like. 
Something I did to get myself into the Marketing space and have a little
More experience on my resume is find a place you can volunteer at as a Marketing assistant or Social Media assistant. Depending on what industry you want to go In, understanding how to leverage social is huge and plus volunteer experience looks great on a resume 
You can do Bing Ads certification & Google Ads for free. They are renowned also.
You can enroll yourself in hubspot and facebook certification program.
Instead of certification better learn some real use of softwares specially google analytics, google tag manager (basic knowledge will be okay) and facebook ads.
I wouldn’t bother. It’s better to focus in gaining real world experience at this point rather than certificates. Google is definitely worth it though. 
It wouldn't hurt to have the certificate, but it isn't going to hold much weight either.  

Get the Google Adwords certification and Facebook Ads certification.  I care much more about what you can demonstrably do for me than I do about Vermont's Digital Marketing Fundametals Cert.  I've run into too many marketing degree entry level hires with no discernible skills, I don't put much weight into digital marketing education.

Put together a website to work as your portfolio.


Not more than 5 grams if you're carrying the hard copy, i presume
There are plenty of entry level jobs that are hiring people who are willing to learn, as they should have a training protocol for all new entry level hires. With that said, make sure you learn the basics and show that you are continuing to learn and that this stuff interests you 
You can do anything if you have the skills to sell and deliver results.A certificate is just a plus but will it be impressive no.Ineiuld seriously get it howver
* Content, Inc.
* 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing
* Traction (19 ways to build an audience)
* Tribes by Seth Godin

Just do the action you'll learn actual experience that way 
Any tips on how I could learn digital marketing from scratch?
That makes a lot of sense btw.
Trying RankMath on a few sites instead of Yoast. Haven't decided the winner yet though.
You left off Search Console. You use that to see what pages are winning and what terms people are using to get to your site.
I have a very detailed campaign for targeting home buyers. We aren't in the same market, shoot me a dm and I will send you over what is working for me.
Be careful how you target. I ran marketing for two real estate brokerages. Using zip codes is good but FB would often be pesky about targeting certan areas. 

I'd run ads to establish name recognition in the market. Then others that specifically say something like "we've sold XXX houses in your area. Yours can be next!"

Then do retargeting of people who click the link to sell their house.
Exclude people with the job title "Real estate broker or agent" if you don't want someone else to spam your ads comment section. Many older people tend to give their numbers on the comment itself, so actively monitor it and after noting it down delete it asap.  Not exactly  the tip you were asking for, but it will help you in any real estate related ads.
Try the exclude options of the Facebook ads. It will help you to exclude the people who are the real estate brokers or builders.
Use Postal Code/Zip Code targeting to affluent areas or areas of gentrification. Amend the creative accordingly to be specific to that area: "Do you know houses in your area are being sold for £xxx,xxx on average in 2018? Find out how much yours is worth with a free evaluation. Click here to enquire"
Digital marketing is such a broad term and the roles within each company vary immensely.  

That being said, the answer is a lot.
Senior marketing director here ( 6 years) - typically 3 hours of work generate about one day of productivity so i spend the first 3 days of the week working (8 hours each day minus lunch)  and the rest of the week analyzing data so by the end of the week I am quiet ahead. Lot's of spreadsheets, content calendars and scrum meetings every morning. Productivity tools and actionable items help a lot. I believe in breaking the day into sprints with one 10 minute break every hour. It's really not about the quantity of hours worked but the quality of your work and how you can complete your tasks as effectively as possible. A lot of my habits i derived from playing chess where you wanna make your moves as economical yet as effective as possible so your positioning is always favorable by the end game.
I’m in growth marketing and I’d say executing on campaigns is like 4 hours a day? Rest is just researching and planning for campaigns.
I probably go on Reddit for about an hour a day (as I'm doing right now). However, most of the time I do spend working.
Are you at an agency?  I'm in-house and "slow" doesn't exist.
I constantly feel like I'm behind, so I don't have a lot of slack time. Between creating content calendars, scheduling posts, sifting through campaign and web analytics data, creating graphics, writing proposals,  researching and double checking budgets and ROI, drafting email campaigns, looking at past campaign performance and planning out upcoming campaigns... on top of weekly meetings and keeping other departments out of trouble... my days are full.

I also have a tendency to take work home with me.
I does not count my work in hour on the other hand the results of my work is better parameter.
10 hours? Occasionally I get burnt out and “slack off” but even that just means I’m looking at stuff on social media or reading digital marketing articles.
Depend on work, as we are agency so it's compulsory to attain office regular, sometimes weekend too.
I work at a small agency. We haven’t been “slow” in over a year. So I’m working about 7.5 hours/day on average. I always have more work to do than I can get to in a day. But our company culture emphasizes work life balance, so if an employee is consistently putting in more than 40 hours/week there’s often a rebalancing of workloads (or generous bonuses/salary increases).
I am a digital marketing manager for over 80 hotels and I work 8 straight hours minimum 5 days a week.
Absolutely finish. You never know what your future will hold and it's so much harder to go back later in life. Use the remainder of your time there to network and get a good internship, it's all about who you know. 12 years on I'm still somewhat professionally connected to someone I met through my college internship.
Just finish the degree to avoid any future barriers. Also, it  supports that you're educated, able to finish a project to the end, well written, etc. Etc.
If you can't communicate why your Communications degree is a good thing, maybe you missed a key module.
Communication works well with \[digital\] Marketing, so consider finishing it.
What have you been using to tech yourself SEM/SEO? I want to teach myself as well but am having trouble finding good content. Any advice/tips ?
I'd suggest you to finish your degree. It is quite relevant to your interest in digital marketing and will help you a lot with developing the right content. Also, some jobs need you to be at least graduate.
I think it is.
Not worth it.
Finish it, but be smart about it! Use this time to make as many connections as you can. Look for internships, fellowships and learning opportunities. Get to know your fellow students. Familiarize yourself with the career services office. Go to your professors’ office hours. And of course actually go to class and pay attention.

The job market changes all the time, what’s in demand now will not be in demand forever. A college degree will help you be more resilient to market changes. Done right, the experience will also help you grow as a person.
Finish your degree. You don't know what will happen in the future - you might decide you want to work in a corporate setting in which case not having a degree won't get you far. 

For context, in my company, I only hire people with degrees. It's not PC but there are some places that won't give you a chance without one. Get it over with.
My boss just got a job as a Communications Manager making like 6 figures (5 years experience) I think it’s worth it!
Don't do it, it's not worth it. Apply for jobs, work hard on networking, get experience, that'll put you way ahead of a lot of people.
Having the degree will help you a lot in the long run - not getting it could be the worse decision you ever made.
There's definitely attribution and/or third party ad serving that will help prove in your media, unfortunately, Facebook and Google both are "walled gardens" that only let you see post-click activity/conversion events and not post impression.

The FB reporting pixel I believe will let you also see post impression, however, you would need to define conversion events (form fill, live chat etc) and set up that tracking on your site.
If possible, have you tried Google Analytic attribution model comparisons before? How I can convince clients that awareness campaigns/channels are working is by looking at first click interactions versus last click interactions. Naturally, these awareness campaigns will not show much last click interaction but should show you some decent first click interaction conversions. Hope that helps.
Nice post
You want to look into how Facebook handles view-through conversions. Install the FB pixel and set up your desired conversions; once set up right FB will be able to report how many people who only saw your ad (without clicking on it) later converted. You won’t be able to track on a per person basis though, but it should help you see if you’re having effects.
You can do some of what you're talking about with Assisted conversions, view through and top paths to conversion.

That being said the best value in view through for complete consumer journey are display ads. Not just through GDN but actual tracked and pixeled users who saw and ad and took an indirect action (saw a display ad but later converted thru organic or another channel). The value of enterprise programmatic solutions are that it isn't a walled garden of users like Google and Facebook. With a DMP you can create even more audience and segmentation. 

What's your display/programmatic solution today? Are you using GDN, DBM or something else if any?
[removed]
You could ask your google reps if they have anything, look at google trends yoy or create a specific ppc campaign to capture the specific words in your campaign in your next social media campaign. 

&#x200B;

Good luck.
You're going to have to track your conversions in 3 ways:

&#x200B;

\- Facebook Pixel: this allows you to see facebook conversions (both post click and post impression);

\- Linkedin Pixel: Allows you to see Linkedin Post-impression conversions

\- Google Analytics: this allows you to see all conversions except facebook and Linkedin post-impression. It also allows you to deduplicate your facebook and linkedin conversions. The top conversion paths and model attribution comparison can help you, but it won't track when a facebook and linkedin ad impact only with impressions;

&#x200B;

Alternatively you can look into Doubleclick and trafficking your ads with tracking ads. But it will only work if your targeting on Facebook is not based on your custom audiences.
Another option is that you can get another phone number for them, use only that number in your ads so that they can see how many calls they get from ads.
I think the cheapest way to get the best results would be to have a website with the basic info and to focus on GMB. Post frequently (2-4) times on GMB and have a system on place where clients who used your services get an email that ask for reviews. Just that will put them ahead of 95% of the rest of the business.
It depends entirely on the individual business. 
Depends on where their customers hang out online, how customers would interact with an updated business's online presence, and what business problem the business wants solved. 

Sometimes businesses do ok with a crappy web presence because some other factor drives customers to the business. 

However - if the business does retail and they don't have an omnichannel strategy, that would be something to consider. Again, it depends on the situation.

Bottom line though, if you're seeking this kind of work, repeat business and word of mouth are huge for you, so you'll want to make darn sure you're getting the best ROAS possible.
$1000 only?

Google, FB or Yelp most likely depending on the audience and business. 
I would advise you to create quality content in your niche and promote it on social channels to get more exposure. Try posting guest posts to other quality websites as well. This is not much difficult you would be required to provide them with quality content of about 700 to 1k words and a bit charge like 50 to 100 dollars but it would provide you with good traffic and quality backlinks.
Continuous promotion is one very important if you are looking for more traffic for the business . Connect your business with social media by creating a business page . ( facebook , instagram ) . You can also use paid promotion option on Oscial Media . It is affordable and best way to get traffic . 

ALL THE BEST .
I’d focus on building quality citations and do some email/sms follow up with customers to drive reviews and referrals. Since your constraint doesn’t allow for building a good website I’d do a simple authentic site with wix or another cheap/free builder. Anything left over budget wise I’d use to push special offers and discounts with ppc on google Facebook or yelp (restaurants only for yelp).
You need to fit your marketing strategy to your target audience and the places they hang out with. If you're a doner shop you hit up Facebook with local ads etc.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
You can't really have the phrase "the best marketing strategies" and "$1000" in the same sentence lol. For $1000 I would set up a website the first month and follow up with content marketing the following months for social media exposure and allocate some of that money to boost the content -  all outsourced.
[deleted]
“Just because Google says you should do it, doesn’t mean you should do it.” 

Same for any ad network. With that much spend (annually? monthly?) I’m sure you have direct contact with reps at every ad network. Some reps are better than others, but they all have the same goal: get you to spend more on their network. 
Talking to customers... those always bring the AHA moments. Or customer success if that is not an option.
I'm going to take it in a slightly different direction. So feel free to disagree because it's not an optimization but an add-on.

I've seen employee advocacy time and time again get implemented at companies spending $1m+ paid, and it is a great complement to augment paid with earned media, boost everything you mentioned, and lower your CPL overall. 

&#x200B;

Cheers
Fully optimizing video creative for mobile. Scroll down in this link for the Wells Fargo example with ways we did that & the results. 

I see non-optimized videos on social all the time and I can guarantee it’s affecting their campaign performance. 

https://m.facebook.com/business/news/building-video-for-mobile-feed
Bump!
Using long form customer testimonials as ad copy — even though best practices are to have short copy on FB ads I’ve literally had ads with 2 paragraphs of direct testimonials from customers that have gotten 3x higher ROAS than the same creative only shorter copy.
that I should be charging more.

Lol, but for real I have a few because I’ve been spending massive amounts of time learning recently

1) reading customer reviews or forums/groups of the target market to learn their lingo, and their pain points and desires. Someone else said talk to customers so same idea

2) stop going for mainstream interest targeting. Instead of an interest like “golf” where people could follow but not be golfers, target interests that only a golf enthusiast would follow

3) don’t overthink things - sometimes I feel like I could be doing more for a campaign (I guess there’s always more you could do) or I feel like there’s optimizations that I’m not aware of, but the overall process is pretty simple. For example I went through a few courses recently and a lot of the experts taught me everything that I already knew, the basics, and it helped me reaffirm to not overthink the process 


I would say shoot for a cost you know is profitable. If you know you make money acquiring a customer for $75 then shoot for that.

Winging it is a good way to burn through cash you might not have. How many customers can you realistically afford to acquire at $300? Can you float the business with a good chunk of your money tied up in new customers?

Lifetime Value is a great metric, but something you should never guess at. I've seen folks lose substantial amounts of money because they fundamentally misunderstood the value of their customers.

I would say for a new business which doesn't/can't know an accurate LTV your ads are profitable if your monthly revenue generated by the ads is greater than your monthly ad spend. 

This may be conservative, but losing money is a tough proposition for all but the most well funded startups. 
You don't. You'll need another way of determining how much you should be spending. 
You rightly told..!!
I don’t think you should be spending $300 per signup yet, but on the flip side, if your paying customers are churning in less than 3 months I would solve that problem before pouring more gas on the fire.
I would like to take a different approach to the comments that have been put here. For Businesses starting out, looking at the ROAS will kill your development and long term growth. When starting out as a Startup or MVP Product of an SMB, your focus should be shifted from Hard  KPIs to SOFT KPIs: Lead conversion rate, time on page, bounce rates, churn rates, CPO and so on. Setup a 1-3 Year plan to reach a positive ROAS  


Rather then going on a rant I also want to give usable advice. Calculate your CPO (Cost per Order) on the base of your contribution margin. Specifically look at your contribution margin 1 and become profitable on that level.  


\# of Transactions / Total Marketing Cost = CPO  


Contribution Margin 1 = Unit Revenue - Unit Variable Cost  


Your Goal is to Reach a CPO that is lower than your contribution margin 1.   


Take your current CPO and set a goal CPO. Calculate the CPO on a Top Level and also on your different channels (adwords, facebook and others). Whilst optimizing your ads keep an eye on your CPO. We track this on a daily basis, especially if we have changes in running ads. If we see an upward trend we need to re-optimize. The longer your ads run the better they become and the algorithms can learn.  


Don't run in the dark, use the date you have.
Politics is a very controversial topic. I try to avoid them because it may deter other clients away who support opposing parties etc. Depends on where you live but in the country where I live no matter how much it pays I stay out of it.
I did a good one. Created a website like a form where you choose differents options and at the end I told you which one you should vote. It got viral 
Another one, with web scrapping and AI I recover every interest of any post on any social media and then remarketing each topic
Digital marketing for a political figure isn't really that far from digital marketing for your products. I mean, its like selling, but now your advertising for someone. So the basics still apply. 
I have helped a handful of candidates with digital marketing (website, social media, content strategy/automation, advertising, and video townhall with streaming). There are plenty of things that are similar, like u/smiley44 says but there are unique challenges. Candidates were harder to manage (scripts/talking points, etc.) than brands and the level of interaction is AMAZING with both supporters and random public who want to troll/fight/disparage/derail your communications.

Only two of these candidates spent money on polling but honestly the audience metrics were just as predictable. I like the pacing but the politics of it were a struggle. 

It helps to be a bit detached; still committed but separate your ego/heart from the results. Get a contract signed for commissions/decisions/fees. Oh, make sure you have a relationship with the campaign treasurer if you don't want to get stuck with unpaid bills!

Just my $0.02.
One of the good tool for political figure must use it by using every platform to engage with public 
Follow the basic rules of Brand Marketing and treat the person as brand while doing marketing. It will help you to perform better. For example, I did some for myself in 2017 and yet the results are still there. If you open google and type Ravi Kumar Rana then you can find almost all of my profile link on first page of google and my blog which I recently set up in October, is ranking on 1st position. 
Read up on Blue State Digital, that was the company behind the super successful digital marketing campaign for Obama. They even have a TED talk about some of the stuff they did.
How would it be different from any other kind of SEO?
Get Google Ad Certified, and certification through FB and put that on your resume.  That course you’re taking would have no value to me an employer.  
I’m kind of putting together an agency. There might be some opportunities for you there. It might mostly be just to learn. I’m not sure. But thugs you’re able to do we could probably turn into work for you. 
It’s not what you know. It’s what you’ve done. 

Love that you’re learning. Try to do something with that knowledge in the short term, and claim a resume bullet point with it.

Best of luck!! I’m reinventing myself constantly and you can do it. Also, hear ya on the bad workplace. It happens. But you’re in control of your own career. 
I think certs have less meaning than cases in the portfolio. Try to describe in detail your best  work experience and indicate the knowledge of which you are sure. Also specify that you are eager to learn and develop (with areas). Good luck!
AIDA formula + sell to the mother (NOT the kids).
I recommend to read a book “blue ocean” how to focus on bigger picture and forget about competing! 
If you're selling directly to parents then I'd recommend the following marketing actions:

* In person sales at meetups, parent get-togethers, etc. Do something that doesn't scale, but that gives you access to amazing feedback early on. You can take videos and get testimonials at these events too and build up trust.
* Work with tutors or babysitters and make them affiliates.
* Mommy bloggers! Make them affiliates too.
* Can you get grants from the government or non-profits to make it free to certain schools or communities?
* Lastly, Facebook will be a good social network to advertise on.
I will say no blog is the best. I will give you my method. I learn something everyday related to business and make notes so that i can refer them later. Straight away search on google, this way you can learn a lot more than just reading one blog.
Hope it helps
Ahrefs for SEO.
Ahrefs and HubSpot for SEO and Inbound Marketing.
Moz.com and Ahrefs are great for SEO. 
[removed]
You can start with Facebook Blueprint and Google academy for ads to learn and practice.
Stone temple for SEO....dudes are next level
Moz, semrush, aref and tutorial on youtube have great stuff on digital marketing.
Social Media Examiner-  coverage of all things social media, from Mike Stelzner and his excellent team. Brings the best of Social Media Marketing World to your inbox all year long. 
I like Hubspot, Neil Patel and Think With Google blogs.
Niel Patel bog on SEO.
My favorite has always been Search Engine Land. 
Neil patel, backlinko, digitaldeepak, soravjain, moz blog, 
Seoroundtable
Sej
Neilpatel
Backlinko
Implement Google analytics, search for best practices lists for the below given topics, learn and implement

1. SEO - SEOMoz
2. Content marketing - Hubspot University
3. Paid search - Google adwords
4. Paid social - Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Linkedin, Youtube
Ahrefs recent  videos 
Moz videos  of rand fiskin
The brain dean backlinko
I fully endorse doing everything you can on HubSpot university before starting anything. 
Google everything. Whatever you need you will find there. You need to have an urge to learn. Read lots and lots of blogs. Implement what you feel is useful. Learning is hit and trial but words of professionals can help you.

Courses are decent. But when you start working real time you learn so much more than no class can eber teach. Good luck. 
Learn the principles and backbone strategy on Youtube and various websites, but trial and error is the only way you will gain enough experience and skill to justify a price point that you can support yourself on. 
Intern at a digital marketing agency. We all can use the extra help!
You’re just not likely to find that sort of thing for a couple reasons —marketers don’t want to give away info to the competition and because they don’t want clients knowing what’s in the secret sauce. This is also why marketing and ad tech conferences are so lame. 

The best resources are the ones provided by the ad platforms themselves because they have a vested interest in your success ( they want to retain your media spends). Get certified in AdWords and Google Analytics. That’s where I’d start. 
Facebook Blueprint, Google Digital Garage.  
Find a specialist agency and offer help or a coffee or give them value and some way and ask to learn (a lot will have case studies on their websites).  


Not necessarily 'digital' marketing but one of the timeless classics is Ogilvy on Advertising
My agency males their own but before I worked here there used to a a thing called "Google think" that had case studies you could DL and use.
Do you have an example of what you’re looking for? 

What sort of “how to” info would be most helpful?
I was looking for this same data as well, with very little luck. 

Google VWO, they posted some of their results as "case studies" ... they don't show how they did it, rather just say that their methods work ...
Honestly, the same things that worked in late 2016 are going to determine rankings in 2017. The suspicions are:

1. Links are still king, and link-building is still the most important part of off-site SEO

2. As deepmind and other semantic systems by Google get better, longer content with good writing and strong on-site behavior metrics matter

3. A lot of people are suggesting that on-site behavior correlates to SERPs for competitive keywords. I have in my experience seen CTR affecting rankings. Make sure your pages are compelling and sticky.

4. On-site and technical SEO is growing in importance. Structured data is key for populating the knowledge graph. AMP helps CTR.

5. This goes without saying, but mobile friendliness and targeting realistic keywords are super important.
Performing Off page SEO & On page SEO activities
I would say interaction is important in terms of ranking. It is often left aside. The focus is now mainly technical but we shouldnt forget about organic influence
seo, backlinking as well as content will be more important factor.
1. content is king
2. take time on onpage specially in creating metatags, keyword analysis 
3. linkbuilding
4. use social media 
Hi! I will be very straight forward 
1. Make sure your site is mobile friendly, this year Google will be very strict on this so be sure on that as test your site if it is, most people think there site is mobile but the truth is they are not.so test it.

2. Update your site content as regular as you can, this can make you be on the first page of Google.

3. Keyword, don't repeat many time as it will never help you to be on the first page, just use your best keywords in usual way on a sentence or paragraph. That is your there.

4. Meta description, that can help much don't forget them.
Well, you need to follow Google's guidelines because technology and the Search Engine algorithm are both becoming much more advanced.

Great content, Proper link structure, Readability, User experience, etc.. is a good foundation to focus on.

Really just all of the main common sense things that actually need to be done like starting an outreach campaign to get natural backlinks.

Real user engagement and interactions.

Videos are great for this, and are also one of the most profitable Ad types when it comes to low, competitive CPC (Cost per Click)

If you want to rank well In Google in 2017 and beyond, you've got to provide value for readers, have full content with supporting pages, and get real engagements on social media. 

These are examples of real, natural signals that any thriving business would have. 

You should also remember that the process of ranking Locally or Nationally can take between 3-6 months to take effect. When first starting out, I would suggest running paid Ads to build up your customer base, and get your brand name out there.

You can use either Google AdWords or Facebook Ads to run those initial paid ads that will help get your website ranked faster, and also bring in sales during those first 6 months that you're waiting to get ranked and indexed within the search engines.

All of this should be handled by an Agency or experienced marketing firm, if you do have a small budget to do so.

So in conclusion, SEO in 2017 has to be done organically with real links and real social signals.

Best of luck!

Yes, but mainly because you are a small fish in a very competitive pond.  Trying to compete in Google Adwords for an SEO/Link Building business seems like it would be damn near impossible to compete with some of the bigger boys in that space.

From a more broad perspective, I see SEM becoming more of a commodity.  It seems it is more of a defensive play to avoid being conquested, as opposed to 10 year ago it was offensive.  

When I got into the business 10+ years ago I saw vendors charging ridiculous fee structures for Google Ad campaigns...  In some instances upwards of 40% of media.  Now it seems like a price war to the bottom, with 10-15% fees.  SEM is becoming a commodity.
Find long tail keywords in your niche that you can create content around. Drive search ad traffic to content. Sell within your content and then retarget viewers of that content to your actual offer page.

Think of the intent of the searcher. What OTHER things do people search for that could lead them to wanting a link building service?

Think long tail keywords to content and make the sale on the retargeting.

We get sub $1 clicks in almost any niche from Google search doing this. Then we pay maybe another $1 per click through retargeting but have a super high conversion rate because they’re a bit warmer by the time they see the ad.
I don’t think it’s google ads itself that is competitive. Rather, it’s your niche. Unfortunately, some services’ keywords are vastly more expensive to bid on than others. I’ve found that most digital services are pretty expensive. I’m still new to the game, but I’d recommend trying to find keyword phrases that are less common and bid on those to gain some traction. I’m sure you know this, but it’s important to make sure that you’re optimizing your landing page as well as you can so that those costly clicks don’t go to waste. Good luck!!
Yes, it is because there are millions of online marketing services provider who are using Google ads. That's why there is a high competition to compete with the other service providers. The competition is higher than ever before because of some of the industry leaders, not just competitive with the massive amount of money but they also get the high adscore every time they put their ad on Google ads.
> Google ads are indeed very competitive - But that's because it's the most used SE across the globe. I'd recommend taking a fair amount of time doing keyword research, target those that don't have much competition recorded, as well as long tail keywords as mentioned already.   
>  
>CPC isn't cheap, but the ROI can be worth it. For example, over the past week for my account we have spent over 30k but with a ROI of 692%...  It's not easy, but it can be done.   
>  
>Also- Have you considered audience targeting?
I think you should try to use youtube ads
Not digital marketing itself, but some repetitive tasks as creating dozens of ads, A/B tests etc.

The natural path is automation as it is already happening. As the time gets by, it will get easier and easier to anyone create an ad. I mean, social media and search engines companies make profit from ads. It has to be easier so more people (and robots) can do.

The strategy and creative decisions will still be on human hands (I hope so). But I guess we will see the number of jobs going down soon.

In the end we are all fucked :)
Let me explain you why Google Ads are becoming easier and easier to setup because there are lots of ads platforms in the world. Even some of them provides the better ROI than Google ads. Therefore Google Ads is facing competition from these platforms. To overcome this competition Google is now creating their ads platform easier than ever. So that anyone can use Google ads to run their online promotion.

Now get back to your question is this the end of digital marketing agencies? My answer is no because not everyone in the world is having the effective copy writing skills. Digital marketing agency is filled with copywriters who write an amazing and effective copy for the Google ads. That's why it is nearly impossible that innovation in Google ads will replace the digital marketing agencies.
For agencies that focus a single channel, maybe. If your agency is focused on omni channel campaigns, I think there will be even more competition and need for agencies to oversee.
No, it’s not the end. Because business owners (b2c) want to run their business. That’s why they hire agencies to handle all digital 
Tell me if you know a client that will allow Google Ads to run their whole campaign and I'll leave this industry right now 
Actually i would argue that it will open the door for more agencies to operate and lower costs for the costumer making it more affordable for everyone
The cost of an employee to manage AdWords to the same level that an agency would, I believe would be more expensive. 

I’m high up in the digital marketing world, yet we still outsource our Google AdWords for our business for convenience. There is better areas I and the rest of my team could spend our time on 

There may be a small shift, but in the overall spectrum I do not think this will be a massive impact to digital marketing agencies bottom line 
Yes, agency margins on media will definitely continue to shrink.  However, there is still a serious need for many other digital marketing channels 
Trendhunter 
Honestly it’s a little bit of reading a ton (New York Times, the drum, age age, ad week, digiday, etc), listening to external partners on what is next for them and an element of “doing it” that over time helps you pick up on the trends. I create a biweekly newsletter for my org and now some external partners and it’s a lot of work but also helps me stay sharp on trends. Good luck!
It might be good to realize that not every trend is worth your attention. Take for example Google plus. It's dead and Google will shut it down. No need to worry. On the other hand voice search is very important new trend that will stay with us. 
I’d recommend creating custom RSS feed on feedly or any other service subscribing to the top sources. Check it every morning and you will keep yourself in a loop.
The main point of digital marketing is to drive traffic to a site so that they convert (sign ups or buys or engaging on site). 

Where I would personally start is in paid advertising. I say this bc you have to learn a lot of other aspects of digital marketing to be good at it (a good understanding of cookies, writing copy for digital, CTAs, understanding analytics, etc.) 

I’d start by becoming google AdWords certified and going through Facebook blueprint. 

There’s just so much free learning online, lots of YouTube videos. Go through that before you buy any courses.
Another part of digital marketing is always use the data as an argument for why you are doing something different. A hypothesis and a result. Understanding how many page visitors/sessions correlate to a projected revenue goal will help as well. 
Take one month free trial of digitalmarketer and try to learn as much as possible from the certifications courses. They have a lot of nice courses. 

!!!
Don’t forget to cancel your subscription as soon as you signup otherwise they will charge you when the month is over :) 
Find a mentor about Digital Marketing. Learn from him. Apply your learnings. Improve his ideas etc.

I myself likes Gary Vaynerchuk. I listen to his podcast, watch his youtube videos even on Facebook and check's his IG. 
Dear,you have to know Search engine OPtimization first .It is the root of  digital marketing. Then you will be able to decide from where you should start.. For that you can take a course or from google search you can get a better idea about SEO.The demand of digital marketing  increasing day by day.

best of luck .
I have the same questions too. It seems the more research I did, the more confuse I became. 

Some people say as u need to master SEO (fundamental of digital marketing) and then they sell you a course on that. 

Some say you gotta start building your email list (u can write your own cheque) and then they sell you a course on that too.

Others mentioned about video marketing (latest trend) and then they sell you a course on that. 

Some swears by PPC (the fastest way to test) and then they sell you a course on that too. 

And the list goes on and on. 

So I’ve spend a lot of money and time doing figure-8 with nothing to show and became more confuse than ever. 

I should have just work hard at my day job, save my income and let it compound. At least there’s something to show 


Key is to have some sort of theoretical background and some sort of understanding. It can be learnt via videos, articles or courses, but main thing is to get to the practice ASAP.
The future is definitely in voice, AI and AR. Now I think you should follow your passion, after you'll get the basic understanding you can do a good decision of picking up the right way for you.
Okay one of the BEST resources ever is [https://backlinko.com/hub/seo](https://backlinko.com/hub/seo). It's pretty much a free course that gives you all the nitty gritty on SEO, which is something you really need to know about unless you just have an endless marketing budget to do paid advertising. 

Just like u/sisimackles said, the whole point is to drive traffic to your site. You do that in a number of ways (as the guy in the little free course I linked will teach you), but one of the main ways to do it is by utilizing backlinks to build up your page authority. There's a super cool free tool I've been using lately called Respona, which uses A.I. to take all of the pain out of trying to outreach and get backlinked and all that jazz. 

I think they're still offering free early access on their site, if you wanna check it out. Getting backlinked is essential when you're trying to win at the Google SEO game. Hope this helped!

Here's the link for Respona: [https://respona.io/](https://respona.io/)
lmfao youre fucked
Check out Hootsuite to help manage the multiple social media channels.
I think a lot of people are jumping the gun here. Tools like Hootsuite, Sprout Social, Buffer etc. are great, but they aren't going to write posts/generate good content for you. They create operational efficiencies, and provide some engagement metrics.

(Aside: If you're new to social media I would actually recommend you start by using the platforms themselves. Until you have a content calendar and lots of content to share it could be to your benefit to explore the various social platforms as a member of your audiences would.)

&#x200B;

\---- The steps I would use to bootstrap a basic social media presence ----

Start by identifying the goals of your social media engagement. Is it just to drive website traffic and build brand awareness? Collect email addresses for remarketing?

Then, Identify the social networks that your audience spends the most time on. Ambitious students have probably started using LinkedIn, most have Facebook and Instagram. 

Now you can start building your social strategy. What sort of messaging/content will help you achieve the goal that you set for your social channels? Study tips? College prep info? Sharing fun pictures and memes can be good for exposure on the platform itself, but it does little for your business in the long term. Back up your social content with well written blog posts etc. Social posts should have a purpose beyond likes, and most shares are achieved through ADDING VALUE for your followers.  If you have competitors in the space that are using social effectively, it's okay to take cues from them. Obviously the goal is to set yourself apart, but you can refine this content strategy as you go. 

Set weekly goals. Perhaps at first you post every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Try to be consistent in the frequency with which you post.

&#x200B;

I love discussing relevant and realistic strategies for starting the digital marketing journey! DM me if you want to discuss further!
what exactly does your company do 
Given the level of familiarity you've described, I'd recommend checking out Jab, Jab, Jab, Right Hook by Gary Vaynerchuck. 

It's like an ultimate guide for those working the brand's voice on social media. Each platform is explained in details, you learn about the difference between them and how to use each one in term of marketing. Tons of examples for inspiration.
Do facebook blue print certification
Firstly we'll done, I think!  :)

You can't do everything, take a step back and understand who your target audience is, and who it isn't. Focus on your idea customer/persona and build your strategy around them.
Starting here will help you focus platform choice, messaging etc etc 
Then use the tools to help create plans, document, create, schedule and report 

Sounds like you're gonna be busy!!! 👍 
Your post is hilarious. Maybe you can add humor to your organization's Facebook posts, especially in education industry. International students would love the content.
Do the Google academy courses, learn Analytics inside out. Get to grips with Google Ads. Learn the basics of a digital strategy. 

Out of all the possible tools, I’d put photoshop at the bottom of your list, that’s for the graphic designers. 4 years in digital and I can count on two hands the amount of times I’ve had to use photoshop. 

Read blogs, look at the Facebook blueprint courses, learn how to optimise running campaigns, learn how to do keyword research, learn the basics of seo. 

Start your own simple blog, structure it to meet seo best practices, create your sitemap and submit it with google search console. Then do an seo audit of your site. 

Open a Google Ads account and find a coupon online, send some traffic to your site, analyse its performs and generate a report of your findings. 

Do an audit of your own Google Analytics & Ads. 

The content is all out there at your fingertips in one google search. 

I’ve got a business degree and I’m a digital consultant so you definitely don’t need one, our head of seo has a degree in music. Lead with your knowledge but most companies require some sort of degree. 
Ayy

A degree in marketing isn't required to work in marketing; however, most firms will ask that you do have a degree - whether it be in general business, finance, psychology, etc. 

Begin with subscribing to marketing blogs (PM me if you want specifics, and I can compile a list for you). Marketing books are good for fundamentals, however for trends and current tactics books quickly become outdated. 

Photoshopping is a useful skill to have in general, but its importance is more dependent on your role, in addition to the size of the company. If you're working at a start-up, having knowledge of all of the adobe creative suite apps (InDesign and Illustrator are just as useful, if not more so) will be a big help. If you're working for a large firm where the roles are much more specific,  the scope of responsibility is more defined, those skills won't make much of a difference. 

Hubspot has outstanding resources for inbound marketing, I'd definitely suggest you give those a look. 

Recommend online training:
Eazl Growth Hacking 2018 Certificate, 
Hubspot Social Media Certificate,
eCornell Intergrated Marketing 360 Certificate

Listen to Social Media Examiner podcast


When you start working, it is a different environment. You will learn more on job than from books. You can start with economic research, if research interests you. Photoshop skills can help you in a design job, totally depends on where your interests lie. 
Follow these steps,

Get around 3 certificates for beginning. Google analytics, Google AdWords, and one more of your choice.

Then apply for internship.

You'll learn fastest this way. Your next step would be finding your niche. Digital marketing has lots of different stuff and if we're talking about marketing then there's infinite stuff. You must find your niche and keep growing. Never stop.
Focus on getting a degree and angling for a good internship next. Yeah you can sling eBay affiliate bullshit on day 1 with no degree but do you think Fortune 500 brands and top digital agencies are hiring people with no degree? In fact, I’d say education is more important than experience when it comes to getting your first entry level career track job. 
According to the American Marketing Association (AMA), important skills are like 

1. Metrics & Conversions
2. Email Marketing
3. UI/UX
4. Social and community
5. SEO
6. Content Marketing.
I am a digital marketer and I believe having good content writing skill is the topmost skill because if you can write a good engaging copy than you can attract more people naturally and social media game is like a snowball which keeps on getting bigger as more people start engaging.
These are must have skills to become digital marketer

* basic knowledge of marketing,
* A good catch up on content
* creativity and presence of mind
* Updating yourself with trends
* 
[deleted]
1. Adobe CS
2. Google Analytics/Adwords
3. HTML 
4. Content writing/CMS 
5. SEO
6. Social media marketing
7. Marketo/email marketing
A digital marketer should be versatile and should be an expert in all the aspect of digital marketing and should be constantly updated with the latest trends in the field because digital marketing is a dynamic field.
The ability to read & judge data.
These aren't specific skills but attention to detail and being analytical will get you far. Skills-wise, understanding tracking mechanisms (setting up cookies, utm codes) and tag management (Google tag manager) and Google analytics (or something like Adobe) are some good basics. 
[removed]
Everything that was mentioned above plus Customer Relations. In my opinion none of the skills above are worth a damn if you can’t talk through it and have a strong pitch game. 
[removed]
I have been working in digital marketing for the past 4 years and have solid knowledge of email marketing and a decent grasp of Google Analytics. I’d like to increase my skill. 

What can the group recommend to get to the “next level” in digi marketing? I’ve taken a few classes and so many just focus on the basics. 

What really propelled you to where you are today? Mentors? Challenging positions? How to land those positions if you’re still building your skills?  
Image manipulation (Gimp is free) and video editing (VideoPad is free). Creating quality content is a great asset for your client's website, social media, email, print material, etc.

I offer event photography and videography with my services. For example, i filmed interviews with chefs at a food event.

Turnkey services! It can be hard to get your client to create/give you ANY content, not to mention QUALITY content.
These are important required skills to be a Digital Marketer  


Content Marketing/Writing  
Creativity   
Basic knowledge of SEO  
Analytics and Reporting  
Social Media Marketing
[removed]
 PATIENCE LOL. Honestly, a lot of tools require AB testing, things take time, you have to do your research, there are really no shortcuts until you really get it and can feed off your deep knowledge of the subject and hacks. And staying on trend - there's nothing worse than using dated tools or methods or lingo. Like, I'm honestly spending hours on slime accounts to learn about the methods they use, although probably 99&#37; of them learned everything they know from articles online and not formal education or anything like that. Sorry about the segway, just spent a bunch of time doing a blog on that
A bit of loaded question, especially as digital marketing has grown so much in last 5 or so years. However, to be a strong digital marketing generalist I think a mixture of different skills will lead to the highest level of success. 

**Marketing**

First and foremost, a knowledge of marketing fundamentals is key. Digital marketing is still marketing just in specific channels. A good digital marketer should understand how there work fits into a broader marketing and business strategy. This allows them to not only ensure the work they are doing is aligned but also gives them the opportunity to enrich that strategy. 

**Technical**

Next (I believe), it is important to have technical understanding of how things work in the digital world. You do not have to know to build the technologies, just how it works so that you can link it to your marketing activity. This also allows you to keep ahead of the game when it comes to the changing technologies. 

**Communications**

Finally the ability to communicate your ideas and technology to none digital markets. This allows you to sell in your ideas to more senior members of a business and accelerate the digital growth for your business (also get help you get more money and resource ; ) ) 

The above is assuming you are looking at a digital marketing generalist role. There are many different channels in digital marketing (such as SEO, SEM, Social, eCRM, Websites, Display Advertising, Video Advertising, Ux, Data & Analytics, etc...) which all require different skills and knowledge. Usually you would have experts to support you on these topics.
1 word: **Empathy**. 

I see so many digital marketeers focusing in owning the channels or tactics, spending hours reading blog posts on "when is the best time to post on Facebook, which advertising platform is the cheapest, 10 quick hacks to optimise conversion on your website etc etc.

Your success as a marketeer lies in:

1. **REALLY Knowing who your ideal customer is**  
Call (potential) customers/users, ask them who they are, what they dream about, what keeps them up at night, what their typical day looks like, what leads them to buy certain products, what influences their decision...
2. **Anticipate on these extremely valuable insights**  
If you want to think like a marketeer, you have to be on the lookout for opportunities, every time, everywhere.   
They don't know how to do something? Write a blog post about it, turn it into a video, share it in communities where they are hanging out  
They don't trust new products? Focus on adding social proof everywhere, gather reviews on Google My Business, Facebook etc, and publish them on the most critical conversion spots.  
Always focus on providing value and building relations. The rest comes later.
3. **Always keep learning**  
You should subscribe to subreddits, Quora topics, newsletters, authority websites... Read your newsletters. Check your feeds.  
Also, don't stop learning from your clients (see: 1.). Keep calling/mailing them, asking them for feedback, giving them value...

Just my 5cents.
Here's the ONLY thing that matter as a digital marketer: 

Knowing how to grab, hold and convert attention into action. 

There are thousands of people who can't write their way out of a cardboard box, who don't look attractive, who are not very outgoing or skilled in front of the camera. 

There are thousands of wheezy-voiced people who are killing it with podcasts. 

There are ugly people doing millions off of Instagram and YouTube. 

Why? 

They don't care of your, mine or others opinions. They have problems just like you, the same 24 hours like you do, and the same options as you. 

If you have a cell phone, you have the same opportunities as anyone with 15 million followers. 

What they do know, however, is to grab the attention of their audience, hold it, stay top of mind, and convert the attention into action. 

It's the only thing that matters. 

U know super bowl? 

It has all the attention when it airs on TV. 

Soccer world championship? BILLIONS of people watch every game. 

Because these events have all the attention, the prices for marketing during these events go UP. 

It's all because of the attention. 

It doesn't matter if you can't write, if that's the medium you can make the most impact on, you should write. If you just do YOU, and your truth is controversial you WILL attract an audience. It's just a matter of time. 

The need for communicating have never changed, were literally doing the same thing as People in the bronze age did. 

They gathered in a group, and talked about stuff. Asked each other questions, answered questions. 

The only thing that has changed is the medium, the channels, the availability and the prices. 

It's the same thing. 

Grab, keep and convert attention. 

Welll, that's a great stuff. But, somewhere I feel Digital Marketing is a Psuedo Field of profession.
[deleted]
I'm nearing my mid 40s and don't think about it. As long as you provide value, you're worth it. But I agree with other poster, start a side hustle. 
I’m with you buddy. Agencies especially do this but typically with senior and junior marketers. Asses your relationship with your boss and always keep tabs of your performance-results in case you need to defend your position. 
As being one in the younger group I would say that any management that just replaces an older person with more experience with someone cheaper is a little retarded. As long as you keep learning and growing there won't ever be a need to replace you. You just have to be the guy who always knows better tips and tricks than the youngsters. I work with guys 30+ years older than me and I'm constantly trying to learn from their experience. 
Keep updating yourself and add more value to the company on a consistent basis. All you past achievements might not be taken into account, but what you are currently achieving will be counted by the management. So keep performing consistently and the management will not get the urge to replace you along with your vast experience.
I'm 22 and constantly panicking that they'll replace me with some part-time, unpaid college intern because that's how much my work is undervalued. 
Whats your role? What has your growth been in the last 5 years? What are your excel skills? Project management? How well do you understand the platforms that you work with?

I work with a lot of jr people - I wouldn't worry so long as you stay smarter than they are. The experience you have is extremely valuable -if you can use it as a differentiator- leverage it and you should be fine. If you're in your late 30s and don't have the experience that comes with it, you're in a lot of trouble.
Since things constantly change in digital, experience counts, but only so much. Differentiate yourself with soft skills, communication skills, project mgmt experience and business acumen. Those are skills that typically only come with experience that younger workers will take time to acquire. 
> digital marketing manager

Are you a hands-on employee as in you manage the digital marketing of a website/social media yourself? Or are you the manager of a department?

If the former... You really should stay updated to the trends and tools to stay relevant.

If the latter, your value is (or should be) in different things, particularly management and leadership. You don't need to worry a lot here as long you deliver on your objectives and continue to grow towards management.
Honestly good experience and a track record will help you keep afloat. We have a few younger marketers, and when it came to looking for a senior marketer, we had a hard time finding one because all the good ones have either started their own companies, or they are committed to a company. I think there's room for everyone, and someone with experience can help guide all of us youngins in the industry. We have so much to learn!
or by a computer with AI.
If you’re worried about age discrimination then you might be missing the point...
100% need to always have a side hustle. Take what skills you have for digital marketing and start cold calling local businesses. It's crazy how many biz owners which are typically over 40 have the slightest clue about marketing and obtaining new customers 
My excel skills are shit. No project management experience. Just social, SEO and PPC.
I think it's a great plan, I'd love to propose that in the firm I work for, but I fear that all the work on putting together the videos will fall back on myself and my designer friend (on top of that, we overview everything that has to do with content: texts, graphics, even mailings). How are you approaching the workload of videos? Any tips to make it easier and faster? Good luck with the plan! 
I think you're dead-on with this approach! They may be deprioritizing Page content, but they're heavily invested in video, so at the very least, I think this is a good way to hedge your bets. And if engagement is what you're ultimately after, video is obviously the way to go.
FB is changing itself to protect spammers.And as you say to go with the short video is a great Idea. Good luck.
Shares are now your most valuable interaction on fb. If a person shares your post, it is more likely to be placed on other's feeds.
Not an adpocalypse, it’s just a different form of advertising. It’s called social media advertising for a reason. The content tends to be social and inspire social engagement.

Therefore it makes sense to create socially engaging content. Turns out video works best for that (whowuddathunk kappa). And on FB use the “page post engagement” campaign type to optimize for engagement.

In my experience I’ve seen drastic changes from aligning ad content and social topics and using that optimization method. One of my clients their ad cost per order (gifting industry) is around $8 currently (avg unit cost around $80). Currently, this strategy is the primary source of our online business. They are hitting about 130 orders/mo. this way.

Also, take FB rep advice with a grain of salt, you have to test what works best for your business.
Oh, and I gotta add: Salesmen trying to cold-call link to me or send pitches on Linked In. Seriously? I only link to people I genuinely know and have worked with, but not a week goes by that I don't have one or two cold calls. I say this as I just got another from someone who's in "software solution sales" from a company I've never heard of.

Just don't.
You're going to see those guys disappear.

There's a new "no mercy" rule for spam. Anything promotional, anything with a CTA = instant, permanent ban.

Thanks for flagging, I'll do my best to keep up.
When registering a domain I always pay for the privacy option every single time and rarely get any spam emails right away. it makes a big difference. On your LinkedIn note, a lot of people do connect with LinkedIn (even if they don't know them) if they have similar interests or are in the same industry. Those connections might lead you to a new customer or even a new job in the future.
Just think of some honest questions, job interviews are a two way street you should make sure its the right company for you also.

Be really careful trying to use questions to 'wow' an interviewer, it has potential to backfire. 

Ask about ares that matter to you, what are the specific areas that interest you about SEO and ask how the role will involve these aspects.
Ask about career progression, training, what is the team like etc.
Its a very common question asked to SEO person that why you want to work in SEO 

then 1>what is search engine?

2>which type of project you handle before?

3>Your before knowledge in digital marketing

I hope it will help you,Best luck to your interview.
Hey mate just a small point: you're not dropping off business cards, you're meeting potential decision makers and finding out how you can help them solve problems. The card won't do the talking, so don't rely on it to have any effect once you've left. Make sure you connect with someone, over something, and let them know you'll be back in touch again. I'll let someone else more qualified answer your other questions, but as an introvert I recognised/assumed/projected that there might be some propensity towards "drop and run" with those cards! People buy people, so connect as best you can. Good luck.
Regarding what you should do if the manager isn't there:

Make whoever you're talking to feel like they would be really fucking up if they didn't pass the info on to someone higher up.

Talk about what others are doing or even their competitors if you can do the research. Go to them with facts, not speculation.
"In God we trust, everybody else bring data"

That said, make great presentations. 

If possible make presentations with after effects and leave the link with your business card.

Trim the data to the essentials: lead generation, SEO, CPC, CRO etc. 

Then present the projects and the challenges. Some people might be bullish while others are bearish, you need the ones which are compatible with your tactics, budget, industry etc.

Marketing is connecting the service/product with the chosen audience. That should include you, meaning you need to be the connector with the business you like and/or are compatible with. There will be less friction. 

Hope it helps and best of luck to you.
I’d also love really like to know the answers to these questions :)
Stagger a reach out on multiple channels....LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook...the more ways that you're 'connected' with them, the more often you/your brand will pop up and remind them of your existence. Obviously dont bombard them and creep them out!
Basically every platform has a different way of attributing clicks and conversions. It's a rabbit hole. 

If all those twitter clicks bounced/had very short time on page they may not have been counted by GA.
Are you using UTM parameters on the link from Twitter? That could help you diagnose.
Honestly if you can't make remarketing profitable with it don't waste your time.
 GA:  
Site visits: 115  
Of which social is: 13   


Are these unique views? If yes, Perhaps those link clicks on twitter aren't unique, some users might've clicked several times.  


Also, some clicks sourced from social media platforms like TW and FB get counted under Referrals and Direct in GA.  


I believe the best thing to do to track the real number of clicks coming from TW is to use their a unique tracking link on whose clicks will then reflect on the Campaign section of GA.
If you follow any sort of blueprint for a marketing strategy you’re likely doing it wrong, all businesses are unique and so should be the marketing strategy. 

My advice would be to totally forget the notion of “I need to do a marketing plan” and think about the problem you want to solve. What it is you want to achieve before you even consider how you’re going to achieve it.

It should end up like a tree. At the trunk is the core aim. As you go up the tree it branches out with goals to meet the aim each having their own leaves that are smaller projects that lead into the goal. Only then can you start making a plan of what to do and when. When you get to this stage look up SMART goals and make sure your goals cover each of the categories.

Good luck 👍
That's a very broad question with not too much context. Marketing Strategy has multiple layers, look up the "P's of marketing" for one. You should find some entry level marketing strategy concepts from there.

 If this isn't your area of expertise I suggest you communicate with your employer that you are a specialist for one particular job. Tell them that they should consider bringing more people on, or an overseer to work with you for the most beneficial relationship.

Most of my business revenue comes from my specialty SEO, and web design because that is my specialty. I only do strategy consulting if I know it's within my expertise.
It really depends on what track you want to go down in the beginning.

If you are purely just now diving into digital marketing with almost no experience, I would encourage you to try free courses to get comfortable with all things marketing to start talking the language by the time April hits.

I know Hubspot offers a free inbound marketing certification course (I had my new hire take the course). After that then you can go down different paths depending on what you're most comfortable with (the goal is to be well-rounded by the end and tackle courses that you are uncomfortable with). These would range from content writing (blogs, PR, organic social media posting, KOLs, etc), paid ads (learning the backends of Adwords and Facebook Business), graphic design (how to make those eye catching images to push conversion), lead management (learn how to LQ, nurture and segment), everything SEO, email marketing, and landing page/email template design (get comfortable with drag and drop as well as CSS and HTML).

This would be a good place to start.
>Bonus; whats it like starting fresh with Digital Marketing and how can I work to the best of my abilities whilst being unqualified and completely new to it all?

I've started giving this piece of advice to anyone that I know just getting started....and I really believe it. You shouldn't be afraid of "Starting fresh" in this industry because everything is always changing. Learn the best practices build on them, and constantly try new things - because that's the name of the game. Try, Test, Try, Test, Try, Test. Imposter syndrome shouldn't exist, because you should always be one step outside of your comfort zone.

Work to the best of your abilities by being a good writer, communicator, and being able to look at the big picture. In the meantime, I'd agree about taking the hubspot certification course to get a crash-course on best practices. 
I’m looking for a digital marketer to work with if you want “experience” if you’re interested!
just do it.  watch 400 youtube video...pick a niche and sell...
[removed]
Nice Post!!
Start working on getting AdWords certification. You’ll learn all the basic digital marketing concepts and if you show up to work on day 1 already certified your boss should be impressed. Not that certification is the be all end all but it’s a good way to learn the UI inside out. 
Hubspot 
What you want to do in Social media management? 

There are different type of services available but it all depends on what type of social media management you need. 
HubSpot would be the go to for multiple services, though it gets pretty pricey.

I understand the convenience of having everything in one platform, but you’d be better off having 2-3 dedicated solid platforms. 1 for social, 1 for email and 1 for CMS.    
Bitrix
Organic and paid or just paid? 
I would like to do basic tasks. Manage and schedule posts, content.  Nothing crazy, just a tool to provide clients. 
Buffer is social scheduling. Hootsuite is more social listening but can also be used for scheduling.

Different tools.
This might not be the most popular opinion, but Sprout Social is a great all in one social platform. It's not cheap, but the reporting, listening, and scheduling features all make it a powerhouse.
Have you tried Later? I’ve used Hootsuite and I personally prefer Later, but it depends on what you’re looking to do. 
Slight preference for Buffer because of its interface. Hootsuite is good for monitoring/listening.
[removed]
I prefer both Hoofer and Buffsuite, tbh. 
Buffer always - hootsuite causes me more bother than it's worth
I personally prefer Buffer, though Hootsuite offers many features not available in Buffer.
Hootsuite because it just genuinely has "more" than Buffer
Buffer is more geared towards social scheduling, but I like it and have been using it for years. They have a free version which is good, but it's also pretty affordable if you need to upgrade. 
I am using Buffer... Currently using free plan... But it's have limitations.. like accounts limits and daily Post limits.. I am also using hootsuit .. it's better then buffer more features.. 
But right now I am using socialaider and best thing is both buffer and hootsuit have monthly plan but Socialaider have on lifetime deal approx $59 for one time payment and you can use lifetime.
But Socialaider not provide analytics report... Right now it's work on FB pages, twitter, Instagram and tubler .. 

Also you can add unlimited social accounts. Socialaider lifetime deal running 
on DealMirror(dot) com website. 
If you are looking for a way to set posts to repeat automatically (which Buffer and Hootsuite dont do), check out OneUp. Only $3/month for up to 10 accounts.
They are different. But my vote goes to Hootsuite.
Buffer Vs Hootsuite


Hootsuite and Buffer are so similar, yet they are so different too.

Two major factors that will help us decide which one comes out on top are;

How easy and efficient the platform is to use
How much time you can save by using it
Good ole calendar I made in publisher 🤣
Asana. 
google cal and a notebook (no I'm not in my 60s... :P)
Excel
I use Trello. After trying multiple tools, it seems like the most convenient one considering price(free)/quality. But that's just for planning. For scheduling I use Buffer. 
Windows notepad.exe
google and candly for clients
Moday.com is fine as well
AirTable. They have very useful templates for digital marketing, digital media & asset management
Co- schedule for social media content, to send out content automatically. ( convenient since IG and twitter doesn’t have scheduling function for organic content) 

For Blog content just google sheet 
Airtable
I highly recommend using Hootsuite! It’s easy/simple to use and can combine all your social platforms into one place.
Teamup.com is fantastic AND free
Hi from a dinosaur! I use notebook for big daily cases and phone notes for shop lists and so on. 
Wrike, Asana, WorkZone...project management systems are great for content calendars!
Currently a GSheet with Buffer. Would like to move to Co-Shedule to integrate MailChimp and Buffer more fluently at a high-level overview in the future since our email campaigns mirror our social efforts.
Blueprint
Create a Business Manager account on FB and read its resources. Play with Ads Manager as you go along with each course/resource. You can even contact an FB support if you have problems.   Good luck!
Perpetual traffic is really good for digital marketing
Foundr is good. 
Checkout social currency. It's really good
Growth Everywhere 
I listen to perpetual traffic, marketing over coffee, social media examiner and the art of paid traffic are my favorite
Neil Patel's Podcast is awesome for Digital marketing
Marketing School
I find hashtagify.com a great tool! However a little bit of research on the platform always does well, spending an hour down a 'hashtag' hole finding what other people use can often be the most lucrative! 
What ever your product is, find the competition for the product and find out what hashtags they are using. That at first should be a good indicator.

There are sites you can use but I like going down rabbit holes on Instagram and finding different communities. It’s a great opportunity for market research and learning more about the customer.

I tend to use 15-20 hashtags, but I rotate them. So I’ll actually have 60 hashtags in my bank and then rotate every day so that Instagram doesn’t think my profiles are spam.
  

You can check tools like Hashtagify or All Hashtag. Apart from that just keep a note that you can use up to 30 tags on a post. If you include more than 30 tags on a single photo/video, your comment won't post. Try to use relevant hashtags.
The most important tags to worry about for your business are:

* Popular hashtags
* Specific/Niche hashtags
* Branded hashtags

Try to use the mixture of these three for getting the best insights or audience to your posts.

Also, there is Tailwind Instagram Hashtag Finder, with this you do not need to put dozens of hashtags. It is a complete Hashtag tool.

&#x200B;
hashtagify.me is a good place to start
There is a website known as all-hashtags. It will help you to find relevant Hashtags For Instagram. Hashtagify is also a great tools to find relevant Instagram Hashtags. Apart from these tools you can also find hashtags from Instagram itself. just visit your competitor profile and see which hashtags they are follow. You can apply the same tricks for your targeted audiences.
Wow. Tough crowd. Harshin’on mah mellow.
AI's impact on the digital marketing field.
Digital marketing is very broad.

Have you even started your PhD yet? You will spend at least your first year coming up with a topic. Reddit is not the place to ask.
Go earn a real job. Writing practically ANYTHING about online marketing will be soon irrelevant and outdated with practically ZERO future value. It will neither help you land any jobs in the field, nor impress anybody working in the field. I see no benefit on a ROI perspective.
Maybe the over abundance and competitiveness. Ad espresso has a lot of great industry comparisons. Also, it would be interesting to compare it to how its taken over traditional media. I think a macro/historical view is the only way it would be useful to your readers. Taken over in the sense that radio took over print, television over radio, etc. Also, the near monopolization of advertising owned by google and facebook. Should two companies own that much power? How has that worked out in the past?
I would somehow create a connection with the cognitive economy (I'm nota shure about the name. In italian is "economia cognitiva" it is like psicology applied to the economy
Hyper-personalization, personal information as a currency, big data, artificial intelligence, machine learning and automation
machine learning, AI or automation? impacts of digital marketing in offline channels? 
Google and amazon are unchecked monopolies that drive absolutely massive consumer behavior decisions. Furthermore, they allow cheating, and false reviews on a giant scale allowing individuals and businesses to falsely manipulate consumers into making improper buying decisions. 

Would be an interesting topic to further explore how a few companies own the entire digital marketing landscape. 
"The extreme influence of the Google company to the digital world - What would happen, if the whole Google company would close today" (Search, Youtube, Adsense, AdWords, Android, etc.). For example how many youtubers would lose their only income, etc.
I think it would be interesting to see the results and differences between exceptional content vs average content with best practices.
Start by reading the current published academic literature in the field. This will help you understand what type of theoretical topics are currently studied and where the opportunities are to build off of that research.
Look up Google's Digital Garage. YouTube, Udemy, Udacity, edX, Coursera, Lynda, etc are all good resources as well.
Facebook Blueprint is free and offers more value than alot of the paid for courses from 'gurus'.  
Same as Google's Digital Garage.  


Couple this with reading extensivley around the principles of marketing, sales, buyer behaviour, advertising and direct response marketing and you'll get 10x more value than a paid for course in the skills required for digital marketing.  
Also YouTube is a glorious place to learn!

But the killer gap then comes in the 'entrepreneurship' and business skills to build a business, systems and clients.
I will recommend you to do some basic reading about all the most popular marketing channels that current exists, and decide if you should be working with Google Ads, SEO, Facebook, E-mail marketing, Affiliate or something else (there's really many opportunities). Then start taking courses on the 3 most popular websites:

* [https://www.skillshare.com](https://www.skillshare.com)
* [https://www.udemy.com](https://www.udemy.com)
* [https://www.lynda.com](https://www.lynda.com)

Decide which channels you would like to pursue, and get into the more advanced stuff regarding of your choice. Contact local businesses and do some free digital marketing for a start, in advance of them giving you a review/case that can be used for getting $ clients to your business.
Lynda is the best 
Hi OP, I started studying for a professional marketing certification, and one of the videos in the learning path is called "Online Marketing Foundations" by Brad B (A LinkedIn Learning course, found on Lynda too). I just finished watching the ~5 hour course and documented some key points of each section in a [blog](https://bethebean.com/marketing/online-marketing-foundations/) if you'd want to quick scan to see if it's right first for you. 
Look into Skillahare
Courses will only get you so far - the real cool stuff begins after. Start by completing some simple tasks by yourself. Look for part-time marketing work (even from friends or family) to actually build up your experience with real life cases. Marketing is about testing and testing and experimenting - everything changes very quickly and you need to know what works in 2018.   


As for courses I'd go with Lynda.
Honestly, the skills aren't that difficult to learn. But you probably want to learn how to SELL those skills to PAYING clients..

in terms of course, i'd recommend Dan Henry's FB Ads course or Sam Oven's course...

they both focus on similar things... one is $1,000 cheaper. 

Forget Lynda, FB Blueprint, etc 

Good luck.

&#x200B;
I'm happy to help you out if you're still looking for someone. I've been working in digital marketing (and also web development) for close to a decade!
I’d be happy to help too! I’ve ran ads on Google, Bing, Yahoo, YouTube, Gmail, Pinterest, Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat. Message me if you need help still. 
Happy to help here! I run digital content strategies for lots of companies you’ve heard of. 

Let me know. 
I'd be happy to help you!
Happy to help. More of a traditional marketer whom knows a thing or two about digital but happy to help nonetheless. 
Happy to help, hit me up if you're up to. I'm in digital marketing for quite a time already :)
OP, would love to see your post/interview when complete. :) feel free to reach out if you need more digital marketers to interview. 
What country are you in? I’m in Peru. B2B start with Google Ads. If your country is like Peru, you can probably purchase a database of companies and blast emails using mailchimp. Clean the emails:
/database. Mailchimp detects over used databases. Budget of USD 600 on ad spend per month should be more than enough. Digital marketing a cheap. Facebook for remarketing.  
I think using Facebook is a very good idea as it has very cheap prices and in under developed countries everyone who has internet connection uses Facebook
Hi, 

In developing country, you can do SMS marketing to farmers and SEO, SEM and e-mail marketing for niche customers.
It also depends on the price point, products and solution that you're selling. But the 3rd segment is definitely an ecommerce store.
Ask your users, they are your best source of feedback in this situation especially because you have a decent level of engagement already - you can literally dm them and ask them for advice. Reach out to some of your power users and ask if you can setup a 15 minute Skype session, don't be afraid to straight up ask them why they haven't bought anything. Do a survey on your site or via your mailing list and take all the money you would have sunk into ads and spend it on incentives for people to take your survey. The problem could be anything so don't make assumptions about what the issue is (someone is probably going to suggest that it's pricing but that's not necessarily true). 

Customer feedback will free you. Get some feedback, come up with a hypothesis and then test it. Good luck!
My guess is that everything isn’t actually designed perfectly like you said.. maybe the offer isn’t right, the price is off, you aren’t reaching the right people, etc.. or you would definitely have more sales by now.

How did you grow your following? What’s the demographic? I’d be interested in seeing your website to see if the disconnect is obvious to an outside viewer 
The top of your marketing (sales) funnel is doing great but now you're facing the challenges as you work down to the bottom of the funnel. Awareness and engagement are bringing in the users but you need to hit them with a purchase strategy. 

I don't think your pricing is bad. I've spent $10 - 20 dollars myself. So here are some suggestions from my end. I handle from top to bottom strategies at work but it's a whole different industry.

* Are you using psychological pricing? For example, list $49.99 and discount to $19.99.

* How many presets are within a package? Are you separating your presets package into different SKUs? For example, seasonal packages or style packages (landscape, lifestyles, etc).

* Do you have an email signup for remarketing/lookalike audience building? In the future, you can do some email marketing to those users to create some urgency to purchase. Email marketing is one of the cheapest forms to get some purchases if done right.

* Are you utilizing content marketing to help encourage users to purchase your Lightroom Presets? For example, I would create a blog showing how to use my Lightroom Presets to make a photo really pop. Not just applying the filters, but also minor tweaks and such. This will take a bit more time and scheduling but you already have the audience to work with. The goal is to get them more interested in your product.

* This is a small chance but is your product being pirated? There's not much you can stop it but you can make it more difficult for users to easily find them by reporting it to be taken down if you see it.

* Are you using Google Analytics to see your customer flow? Where are they dropping off? Are they stopping out at the checkout or they simply not interested in the product? 

* Do some sales campaign. Create promo codes for discounts and more. You can do a survey and ask your customers to do a survey for a 50% discount.


I hope this helps!



A/B test new landing pages.  Could also be pricing. Try packages/ bundles too. 
I would like to see your landing page :)
Having sufficient traffic doesn't entail an increase in sales, unless you have a thorough marketing strategy for sales.

Do you know who are your potential clients? maybe they are not among those people who visit your website through your instagram page.

There might be inconsistencies in your market segmentations that leads the wrong people into your site.

It would be more efficient if you have some marketing consultant analyze your website and social media pages to find out the bugs in your marketing plan. However, if you want to do it yourself and do not have a budget for hiring a consultant, you can do it yourself by taking marketing courses, you need to get a good grasp of all aspects of marketing from the Product to Price, Place and Promotion... the 4 P's of marketing and how they impact your sales.

&#x200B;

Good luck

&#x200B;
Ping me.
Seth's blog.
Yourmentorken.com 

Just made it 
Here are some worldclass blogs in terms of content as well as UI/UX:

* [groovehq](https://www.groovehq.com/blog)
* [surveysparrow](https://surveysparrow.com/blog/)
* [buffer](https://blog.bufferapp.com/)
* [neilpatel](https://neilpatel.com/blog/)
* [hubspot](https://blog.hubspot.com/)

Social Media Examiner

Social Media Today

Marketing Land
Hubspot and AdStage
Nice Research man. Looking for additional tips on Digital Marketing.
Good to know about this..thanks for sharing the useful information..
It's  very helpful information
Thanks for sharing such a useful information..
great info.
Useful Info.
perfect
Okay, so first of all, you're going to track everything through Google Analytics, why? Because its free to use. You'll install that tracking code on your site, set up URL based goals and enable ecommerce tracking so that you can track sales/revenue.

 Here's how you're going to spend that $1K. 

$500 on Facebook Ads - Show Movie Trailer in link ad with hyper-localized headline such as "Showing at ___ Theatres" geo-targeted to people in the area with similar interests as the movie genre.

 $500 on Adwords Ads - Same idea. "Batman Showing at ____ Theatres Now." Target keyword searches for the specific movie, theatre, and searches for movies in the area. 

You can drive both ads to your site for ticket purchases but before users buy, have them enter their email. You'll need these later. For SEO, just tell your interviewer that you'll write a couple blogs for the movie w/ keywords and link-tags to relevant sites that the company can post on their website and share organically on social media (sorry not my forte). Then take all the emails you collected that didn't end up purchasing and the emails that the company already has (assuming you're not ALSO building their CRM) and hit them with promotional messaging for your movie. 

This isn't foolproof by any means and would need a great site and ads. It would need to be tested - but this should at least help you sound like you know what you're talking about.
Hello Melihs, 
Congratulations and welcome to one of the most exciting careers in modern day marketing. 

Here are my recommendations for you. I'm doing my best not to repeat the great comments already on this post. 

1. Make sure your plan consists of multiple optimisation cycles. MOC's. A good start is these cycles are weekly.

2. Split the budgets into four parts that are not equal and apply weight. There is a learning curve involved with managing your campaign, and dollar spent the first month is different than the dollar spent on the last month. A good rule of thumb is 
Week 1 15% $150
Week 2 20% $200
Week 3 30% $300
Week 4 35% $350

3. KPI's the most important metric to measure is conversion. Make sure your always optimising for conversion and you can track conversion on your analytics tool. All other KPI's will feed the acquisition. 

Here's what the KPI's are really telling you.
Impression = Demand of the keyword
Clicks/Reaction = how good your quality score is and your ad text.
 
4. Don't ignore Bing, Split you SEM budget into 30% Bing, and 70% Google as this is current distribution between their search traffic. Bing CPC is much cheaper than Adwords. I've put my reference about this below.

5. Don't ignore Youtube in-stream videos; I honestly find these great especially for movies. Make sure you set your targeting based on GEO settings and you have a good video trailer that says the movie is playing your cinema. 

6. Optimise Calls to Action, Budgets between Facebook, Adwords, Bing, and youtube, and Audience targeting.

7. Apply growth hacks. Create a microsite for a movie playing in the cinema (www.BatmanReturnsatCinemaName.com).  Using a referral program ask people to refer a friend to the film to win a free ticket and popcorn. People who successfully refer three people, get a free ticket. 

8. Email, with my experience with movies the best thing to do is to sort email by genres. For example fiction lovers, or sci-fi fans. Create a weekly newsletter and offer a reward for anyone who reads it by placing a coupon code "AllSheWantedWasPopcorn."

9.  Hire local movie critics and ask them to review each movie inside your blog. Create lists of top best ten movies by genre or year. The best action movies of 2017, the top best romantic movies, etc. This will help build up your SEO. You need to send your written a list of keywords to include in each blog, to ensure that you build content that improves your SEO. The better the SEO, the easier it is to manage your SEM campaign. 

10. Create a movies trivia on social media channels. A great campaign I saw once, was if someone could translate movies names into the local language, it was hilarious as many movies names were lost in translation and the campaign went viral. Other things could include, ask questions about plot, characters, actors, etc. 


Good luck
Reference 
 http://www.ebizmba.com/articles/search-engines


I love these Reddits.  You can tell everyones marketing background immediately.

Before we get ahead of ourselves, a little bit information from you goes a LONG way.  

1.  Describe the theater
2.  Which movie did you decide on

Creating a digital marketing campaign is not a cookie cutter process.  I don't sell individual services such as web design, or SEO, or Adwords, FB Ads, etc.  Because then you end up blindly selling your customer things that simply don' t work and you just took their money.

Your movie and venue determine your consumer.  Your idea consumer determines your campaign and which advertising channels to use.

If this serves as your part of your interview, having an understanding of that is VERY important.  Movies typically start strong and fall in numbers.  Choosing an up and coming film creates more time.  A rushed campaign is a bad campaign.  

The apps and website that a teen uses differ from an adult.  If you choose a kids film, your digital efforts should appeal to the parents, the moms on Facebook.  Teens to Young Adults, IG and Musicly.  Afterschool.  Snapchat.  Adults?  Facebook.  Young people DONT use Facebook.   

Your ad should promote the customer experience of your actual theater.  Just saying "Come here, we are showing this movie you hopefully want to see" is not enough, especially on a $1000 budget.  You don't think your friendly megaplex competitor isn't doing that with a bigger budget? Invest in the experience.  Use your social media to create sharable content.  Dress as the characters and upload the picture with our hashtag.  We will pick one to be on the site.  Pizza party before the show.  You must figure out what you must do to bring butts through the door, and you can't do that unless you figure out what will get those butts into the car.  We target mothers for kids movies because they are they ones who generally watch the kids.  We target Snapchat and GeoTags and Search Users Nearby because thats the app teens are using every single hour they are awake.  By creating the user experience that's exclusive to your place of employment, you have a foundation of what you are going to place in the other channels such as your website, social media, etc.

There is a ton of good info here.  Hopefully you can flesh out a good plan that gets you the job.

Good luck
Thanks for writing this, it's a seriously good help. Subbed!
This is extremely useful, thanks!
nice article definitely worth the read!
New Batches are Starting Visit: http://www.digitalnest.in/
I stopped reading when you said this: "build a following on Instagram and then sell them some products using Amazon affiliate links"  

If you don't know why, you probably don't know anything about the Amazon Affiliate Program. 
My opinion? I need solutions, needs met, problems solved, not tools. Try some content that does that :)
[deleted]
I just got a job in digital marketing having only taken 5 marketing classes. I am the first digital marketer for a healthcare clinic. I do not think that opportunities are running out. If anything they are increasing. As for training, I do have a degree in communication. You can do things on your own like getting certified in Google AdWords.
It's never too late.
Its just getting started and still growing tremendously. The best part about learning how to be a digital marketer and working for somebody for a little while is is that you become good enough to just do it on your own and make the full profit.....

I still can't fathom why anyone who is skilled enough to run good campaigns doesn't jump to affiliate marketing and  just work for themselves.
Never too late. Land an interview for an entry level job and prove your work ethic. You'll learn everything along the way. I've hired folks with no experience compared to those with tons. You can't teach work ethic and unfortunately this business is filled with way too many entitled and lazy folks who don't care to learn or stay late to be team players.
The secret tip of any profession how to earn more is to love what you're doing. 

If you really ineterested in  digital marketing industry, it's never to late. And you don't need to take a university course to become an expert, actually.  But if you want it because of ease and popularity you may be disappointed in the process of studying/working
It’s never too late, if anything now is a great time to get into digital. But it’s far from easy!
It's never too late to do anything... unless you're trying to enter a kids talent show at age 40
It's absolutely not too late!

In fact, it's the perfect time. There has never been an easier time to get online and break into the digital space.

Sure, there's more competition than there was 5 years ago, but with the right attitude and hard work you can soar above the rest because they don't have the drive.

I myself started digital marketing 2 years ago after locking myself away from the world for almost a decade.

I now earn 5 figures a month from affiliate marketing and have traveled the world speaking on stage about my transformation. 

It's never too late! :)
Absolutely not Infact it is high time you start learning and exploring this platform . Digitalization of platforms has just started hence the market is absolutely vaccant .
It's never too late! Competitive, yes, but you can do it. Learn a lot, ask questions, take free courses, and you'll get into a nice starter gig. Don't expect to make a huge salary at first, but if you get really passionate, creative, and good at it, in a few years you can be six-figures+. Best of luck!
Absolutely not! 

Meow and meow people consume their media via their smart devices, many business owners don't have the time or the necessary understanding of how the market works!

Digital marketing is evolving with the technology around it. Expect it to expand into VR and AR in the following years.

There is a big chance that some of the jobs are going to be automated - but that is more relevant to specific tasks. We believe that the automation will only change the way the Digital Marketing Industry works and involve with it.
Marketing is simply more saturated than before. It's not like the opportunity has disappeared completely. Work hard and seek opportunity. 

Tons of businesses out there without any competent marketing departments.
Too late? No this is the beginning  Google has only been round since  1996 and Facebook since 2004. Digital marketing is at an early stage although it moves extremely quickly with new and more advanced tools being introduced on a seemingly daily basis. In fact it moves so quickly that small businesses cant keep up. Added to that things like SEO, SSL certificates GDPR, Facebook pixels are all things that in allot of cases are being overlooked and opportunities within this niche.
Digital Marketing is very good field and you can start learning anytime. You can easily get new job after completing digital marketing course. You can also do freelancing and earn good money through digital marketing. 

Please note that nothing is easy, you have to work hard and put your best efforts. Once you become proficient in your any field you will get ample of good opportunities.
It's a shame that other jobs doesn't have an open culture as programming have.  


If you ask the same question in a programming subreddit, you would already have many mentors willing to teach you. Good luck searching for somebody!
Well, you have two options.

First, if you take an entry level position at an agency or company, culturing a natural relationship with an experienced digital marketer you respect is ideal (and that person respects you back as well). Just like any industry. 

Or, you can hire someone. I know many people that offer paid mentoring services. It's going to be pricey, but look for one that is in your target speciality (PPC, SEO, Social Media, Email, etc).
Where are you based u/darkhorse818? If you’re anywhere near Boston, I’m happy to offer any advice and mentorship I can
I’ve worked for 4 companies now doing paid search. Everything I learned was on the job experience and reading blogs. People don’t exactly want to share their secrets for success especially when it might fall under trade secrets.
Get a job at an agency that offers the specific sub-section of digital marketing you're interested in (SEO, PPC, CRO, etc.).  Then find the person in the company that's actually good at what they do (most people in agencies will be mediocre at best) and suck up as much knowledge as you can.
Look for digital marketing consultants in your town and ask if they need any admin help. 
If online coaching helps, I would be happy to help. 
As a digital marketer, you will need to acquire a set of skills and combine them to deliver results.

These skills include and not limited to (listed below each skill are free sources you can use to learn):   


• SEO 

SEO Learning Center by Moz

The Definitive Guide To SEO In 2018

How to Learn SEO in 2018 (and Stay Sane)

Neil Patel: The Advanced Guide To SEO

Search Engine Land’s Guide To SEO

7 Days to SEO Success

  
• PPC 

PPC University: Learn Search Marketing for Free with WordStream

Google Digital Garage

&#x200B;

• Social Media Marketing 

Social Media: The Free Beginner’s Guide from Moz

A Beginner’s Guide to Social Media Advertising

Facebook Blueprint by Facebook

Primer by Google

The Complete Guide to LinkedIn Ads

The Sophisticated Guide to Marketing on LinkedIn: 2017 Edition

The Complete Guide to Twitter Marketing

Twitter Marketing: The Essential Guide

Instagram Marketing: How to Create Captivating Visuals, Grow Your Following, and Drive Engagement

How to Create an Instagram Marketing Strategy

Snapchat Marketing: A Guide to Creating Compelling Snaps & Stories That Grow Your Brand

  
• Digital Analytics 

Google: Analytics Academy

A Beginners Guide to Facebook Insights

How to Use Twitter Analytics: The Complete Guide for Marketers

Understanding LinkedIn Analytics

Instagram Analytics Guide: How to Pull & Examine Your Data

Snapchat Analytics: How to Measure Your Brand’s Efforts on the App

  
• Design 

Graphic Design Tutorials By Canva: learn about concepts like color schemes, typography, designing with shapes and so on using Canva as a platform

Piktochart Tutorials: Learn how to create amazing infographics using Piktochart.

Visual Learning Center: Learn how to create infographics using Visme, another DIY tool.

Design Fundamentals by Crello: Crello is a new online graphic design tool that allows you to create some neat stuff. The tutorials cover a number of concepts from beginners to advanced.

  
• Inbound Marketing 

Hubspot offers a: Free Online Marketing Training | Inbound Certification

  
• Email Marketing 

A Beginner’s Guide to Successful Email Marketing

Email Marketing Made Simple: A Step by Step Guide

Getting Started with Email Marketing

&#x200B;

• Coding

 You can go to W3 School website to learn the basics for free: W3 Schools Online Web Tutorials 
Udemy is so helpful, as a digital marketer, you are constantly learning and growing. Udemy is how I keep up even as a pro!
You actually no need to take a paid course you have lot of content which you can watch and learn.

If you are interested in fb marketing you have facebook blueprint,similarly for google you have google academy
Digital Marketing involves many things such as SEO, social media marketing, link building, etc. So, you can go through the  or maybe go through the Whiteboard Friday sessions of Moz or Marketing Land to get an idea about this field. 
>'...so I can maintain an image on a business Instagram'

&#x200B;

Can you elaborate?
Yes they are totally free and you will have all the info.
I haven't really seen anything in-depth covering Instragram marketing that's any good - if you just try Googling around the subject you should find a number of blog posts that'll help. If you're looking for digital marketing help more broadly, you could do worse than reading a blog like Moz. For me, owning and operating a website, together with reading blogs, was the best to learn. 
The same to me. I am waiting for someone who will giving the best for you and me. Hope that!
Setting up computer, getting logged into all platforms, and scheduling intro calls/face to face with all relevant team members and stakeholders.
Watching 400 Youtube videos to try to figure out wtf I was doing.
Getting Admin access to all platforms that I will be handling. Going inside of the platforms to learn the current strategies they're using. Study the analytics data to learn where you are acquiring leads and traffic. See what's working, and what isn't. Start putting together a plan on what changes should be made, and why. 

&#x200B;

When you enter a new roll as a Digital Marketer, with a new company, you will have a \~2-3 month period that will be a "learning period" for lack of better term. It's almost impossible to enter a company and start "working" immediately.
Besides setting up my computer and programs, I talked to people that were important to the success of my efforts. Sales people for instance, then customer success. It gave me insights into our customers, prospects, what kind of people we target, and how we speak about our product. This was over the course of the first week, but started with that on day 1 too. 
First day was pretty much all admin (paper work, setting up computer, meeting co-workers and learning about the different teams and how they work together). After all that it was training on the systems/platforms used and shadowing colleagues to see what they did and how they did it. 

&#x200B;

I probably got my first assignment during my second week and it was replicating a report that from a month prior with updated data. From there things started to build up but first day and week were more geared to admin and training.
Setting up computer, and a training course.
First day is pretty much all about setup. After that, reading on-boarding documentation about any need-to-knows with regards to the work such as demographics, objectives, current channels, etc. and then just doing some research and gaining a better understanding of the product at hand.
Update information from webs which bring the value to apply for my work \^\^ 
B2B marketing is strong social. The B2B funnel and goals are different from regular social for consumers. 

In my experience, social is used for attracting people to your content (for E.g a case study on best software tools for a particular problem) and then to retargwt users that engaged with your content. 

There's also a few shady ways using linkedin, fake accounts, email lists and social.

Happy to get in depth - pm me if you wanna run down.
In my previous agency, I had only b2b clients. Several of them used social media. LinkedIn is an effective platform, not necessarily Facebook. Here's an approach that I found to work:
1. Use Facebook more for events coverage and employer branding.
2. Use twitter to engage with audiences and influencers via tweetchats etc.
3. LinkedIn talks more about your business expertise, thought leadership, and service/product.

But considering the powerful targeting ability of Facebook, don't rule it out. 
Make a conversion funnel and to each stage of the funnel, map a corresponding content type. Example- a blog meant for awareness would go on Facebook and LinkedIn. A whitepaper (with a form) meant for awareness would go on LinkedIn.
Then sponsor those posts. Organic reach is insignificant.
Here's where Facebook trumps linkedin. You can make a custom audience based on people who engaged with your previously sponsored post. Those guys and their lookalike audiences are more likely to pay attention to your next in line post
I've worked on a lot of B2C and B2B, for everyone from startups to supermajors. It totally works for both, and importantly \*can\* work on any platform, if approached correctly (For example, you can do B2B industrial lubricant sales on Instagram if you really want to, but it requires a bit of thought!).   


Generally speaking, B2B requires a deeper approach to content, because purchase pathways are longer, but ultimately, you are still selling to people - there just might be more of them involved ina B2B sale than, for example, some dude buying a pair of shoes. Typically you'll find more focus on building up key people as thought leaders, providing sales with content support, and perhaps surprisingly, less of a product-focus, and a greater focus on problems the business solves.   


Feel free to PM me if you want, I can give you some specific examples. 
Useful concept for B2B:

The ‘Awareness, Consideration, Purchase’ buying model. People go through each stage. Great B2B marketers help people stay engaged and help move them through each step with content that matches the appropriate level. Check out HubSpot for this.
There are plenty of industries marketing on social for b2b. Anyone offering seo, digital marketing services online to businesses on both linkedin and fb/ig.

It gets interesting the beauty industry like say the salon industry where product producers market to both hair dressers (b2b) and consumers.
Define social media. What is, social media. 

Is LinkedIn social media? 


It boils down to knowing where your market is. Your business C-Suite leaders aren’t making decisions based off something they saw on Facebook or Instagram. 

However, connections on their platform such as LinkedIn? I would argue yes. 

On the other hand, a small business owner might find a SaaS company advertising on Instagram/Facebook during leisure, that solves the pain points they’ve been struggling with. 

Yes - social media works for B2B marketing if the problem solver understands who they’re trying to reach and how they can reach them. 
I would go as far as to say that business-to-business is actually bigger than b2c because a lot of people Instagram one of the Instagram Stars and most of the people on Instagram selling stuff are trying to teach them how to do that which would technically be business-to-business....
B2B for sure, i have gotten tons of leads with proper content marketing via Instagram and WordPress. But to be fair, the hot leads came from WordPress \[quick tips\].

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Hello dear fellow, I'm a digital marketing coach from Tunisia and I think I can help you with that. 
Hey man, I'm also located in Singapore and interested in becoming more well-versed in Digital Marketing. If you're interested, let's exchange contacts and see if we can trade info or find some project we can work on together. 
Sounds cool. How about getting together on a telegram group chat or something to exchange ideas and stuffs, guys? 

Am a digital marketer for an e-commerce site, btw.
Also from sg, would be keen to be a part of the group to learn more!
Share Telegram group guys ⚡️🦑
Check out the Word Workers facebook group. It's an awesome community of professional copywriters.
Hello! I'm fr Singapore as well! I was not expecting any Singaporeans to be on this sub. I'm currently learning about digital marketing so let's link up!
Hello from Malaysia!! 😁
Hi. Could you add me to the group as well? Would like to bounce ideas on facebook marketing with you all.
Digital marketing is constantly changing and sometimes it can be hard to stay current on algorithm changes and trends when you're busy. Find a way to incorporate at least a small amount of digital marketing news as a weekly or daily habit.

I would choose one of the following sources that work best with the existing routines:

Podcasts

If you have a commute, listening to podcasts could be an easy way to stay current. I'd recommend trying Edge of the Web, Marketing Over Coffee, or Authority Hacker. They all do a decent job of going over some of the big updates.

RSS Feeds

If you follow blogs and already use an RSS reader such as Feedly you may want to add some digital marketing related blogs. I'd recommend following Quick Sprout, Buffer, Wordstream, and Conversion XL.

Email

If you prefer to get a daily digest in your email I'd check out Search Engine Land or Marketing Land.

Don't over do it, choose a method you think you'll actually pay attention to and not ignore.
If you are working this much, I would look for another job as this company does not respect your time if they want you to work 60 - 80 hours/ week. That is unhealthy.  If you are doing this on your own, I would cut back as you will burn out and that's not going to be pretty. If you want more hands-on time, see if a local nonprofit can use your skills for free on the side and work a normal 40 hour week.
Conversion XL institute, Digital Marketer, SEO that Works, Fletcher Method, Russell Brunson, CopyHackers, Sam Ovens
What are you doing for 60-80 hours a week that isnt your goal career? That's not healthy in the slightest. 

Many people seem to have this idea that working lots of hours means you're a hard worker. It doesn't, it means thatveither you're not working efficiently or yoir company is taking advantage of you. You are not a surgeon (I'm guessing), no one is going to die if you put in less hours. 

You need more time in the day so you can focus on marketing, that would be step 1.
Follow active digital marketing experts on Twitter. They post regularly on important updates on different platforms and make it easy tomfollw up with them while just checking up on your Twitter feed. I would recommend you to start with Larry Kim just because he regularly post lists of other experts that you can also follow. 
See if you can do some digital marketing work for a local company for free. Someone who is happy for the free help and is happy to let you learn at the same time. Use that as a case study to show future clients / employers.
try some podcasts. I think its the only way you can find some extra time!
YouTube, Google, Facebook groups, podcasts. That's where you should start. First learn some theory then go being practical by doing advertising for somebody or for yourself so you will learn it.
Why don't you learn "on job" ? I know learning on job is tough, but i think you can work it out. As i can see you're spending 60 to 80 hours a week in an organization, i see it as an opportunity. Opportunity to learn, when you do not have work, then open up Udemy buy a course and listen 30 to 40 mins each day.
This job requires a lot of time to be able to test, re-test and understand best procedures.
If you have no time, how can you develop? 
Ryan Stewart for SEO.
Time and energy for PPC. 
SEO (Search Engine Optimization) is a form of digital marketing that involves optimizing your website and content so that it gets better ranked by search engines, and gets you more visits.

&#x200B;

Digital Marketing is the overarching term that refers to any marketing efforts done online. This can include SEO, paid facebook, paid search, content marketing, conversion rate optimization, and many many more
SEO is a sub-set of digital marketing.   


While ALL SEO is digital marketing, not all digital marketing is SEO.

  
Digital marketing covers: SMM, PPC, content marketing, etc etc
No SEO is the part of Digital Marketing
No, SEO is a major part of Digital Marketing. Without SEO digital marketing is incomplete. 
To get better understanding, you can see [Digital Marketing Image](https://imgur.com/XdPWUmL)

&#x200B;

**Digital marketing** encompasses **all marketing efforts** that use an electronic device or the internet. Whereas **SEO** is one of integral part of any digital marketing strategy.

SEO is the process of making a web page easy to find, easy to crawl, and easy to categorize. It is about helping your customers find out your business from among thousand other companies via search engines.
What is your industry and budget? 
Digital marketing = (seo, smm, ppc google ads, social media marketing facebook, Pinterest, twitter, reddit, tumblr,qoura, etc
 **Difference between SEO and Digital Marketing. SEO is one tool of digital Marketing** 
yes Digital marketing is different from SEO. I would like to explain how they are different from each other.

&#x200B;

SEO --> It is the process or technique which includes website and content optimization with the appropriate and efficient use of keywords searched on google search engine. As a result it will help you to rank up your website and increase in organic traffic.

It is of two types: On-page SEO and off-page SEO.

&#x200B;

Digital marketing --> It consists of the techniques which you use to sell/ market your things or services on the internet. SEO is also the subset of digital marketing.

Some  of the methods used to earn money online and make your brand's online existence are:

Web development for your business, blogging, affiliate marketing, CPA, Facebook marketing, email marketing, Google ads, etc.

Hope it helps!
 There are various methods in digital marketing. SEO is one such method which comes under digital marketing. Other methods include:

· Search engine marketing (SEM)

· Content marketing

· Influencer marketing

· E-commerce marketing

· Social media marketing

· Social media optimization

· e-mail marketing

· Mobile marketing. 
SEO is a part of Digital Marketing. As you know Digital Marketing is a wide subject which includes SEO, PPC, SMM, Email Marketing
 

SEO is one tool of Digital Marketing. An SEO specialist is someone who has expertise, knowledge, and experience to optimize a site so that the traffic is increased and ultimately, ROI of the company.

Where, Digital marketing manager works along with an SEO specialist in a campaign to increase a company’s overall exposure using digitally based media. The strategies shared by SEO specialists and digital marketing manager include several marketing practices such as email marketing, content marketing, social media marketing, and mobile marketing. An SEO specialist is concerned about increasing visits to a website and the digital marketing specialist is concerned with increasing a company’s overall online presence and visibility to consumers.
Digital marketing includes SEO. So, you need to understand SEO for digital marketing. SEO helps to find your website in Google.

For a digital marketing consultant, you will need to look for a digital marketing agency. 
Here is a complete explanation about DIGITAL MARKETING or some people says INTERNET MARKETING or ONLINE MARKETING. Basically, Digital marketing is a Tree and It mainly has 3 Branches.

SEO(Search Engine Optimization)
SEM(Search Engine Marketing)
SMM(Social Media Marketing)
SMO(Social Media Optimization)
SMS(Social Media Sharing)

Apart from this, there are other Marketing terminology

Email Marketing
Content Marketing
Affiliated Marketing
Marketing Automation
PPC(Pay per Click)

ETC. So now we can say that SEO comes under Digital Marketing.
SEO is a part of Digital Marketing. Digital Marketing includes SEO, SMO, SEM, SMM... etc
SEO is the part of digital marketing, digital marketing includes SMO, SMM, SEM, Email Marketing, Affiliate Marketing...etc
I would add an in-house Graphic Designer if you really want to do it right... People don't read anymore.  Ads we run with images convert 3x higher and 7x higher with a Graphic Designer on the team.  
What makes you think in house team will yield better performance?

An Agency is management fee + media

In house is salary + media + learning curve

We routinely clean up the mess of in house teams more than agency screw ups. Unless you hire gurus, which are expensive, you won't even know if what they're doing is successful or a failure.

You obviously don't know where to start. Why do you think this strategy will be more successful?
It's pretty hard to say what you need without knowing the company and level of campaigns you're running.

2x DM Specialists to look after implementation, optimisation and analyses would be my general suggestion. When you grow, look into hiring an analyst(s). You most likely do not need them straight away. If you do, hire one on a project / freelance basis.

Running an in-house team is tough, if you don't have the experience I'd seriously consider just look for another agency. You can (and should) have total control when you work with agencies.
What kind of business is it? I’m thinking that different industries might have a different answer here. 
Why don’t you try short term free lance specialists. I’ve worked at places where they ditched suppliers and used a single freelancer for a specialist role such as PPC. However there was still a main headcount for overseeing the organisations strategy. Depends on budget really. 

If you really need to build a team, I’d suggest a senior digital exec / specialist who looks after a super enthusiastic graduate who can carry out the paid acquisition activity. You may be able to borrow a data analyst from another department to analyse results and get graphic assets created from a marketing team? 
Sounds like a recipe for disaster if you’re not even sure who to even hire. You should be hiring based on needs within a strategy.

Do you need to produce more creative to reach additional audiences with segmented messaging or designs? Do you need copywriting to expand campaigns to compete with competitors? Are you paying too high a CPA because the campaigns are not properly filtering out overly expensive conversions on branded campaigns?

If you’d like, I’d be happy to run an audit for you and let you know a few different things:

1. What is working and what isn’t working in your existing campaigns
2. What needs to be done to improve them
3. Based on what needs to be done - what skills you need to improve the campaigns and what you may want to hire internally to support the workload.

As mentioned above, hiring internally would not be financially prudent versus hiring an agency that knows what they’re doing, or at a minimum, hiring a consultant to give you professional guidance on what to do next. Once you have a plan then you can hire internally if there’s a good fit for it.

Let me know if you’d like to do an audit with us. We turn most around in 24 hours. (Depending on how robust your campaigns are.)

You can dm me if interested
There is no one right way to build a team. You build a team based on your needs and where you see yourself in a year. Maybe you have a designer and campaign manager. Maybe you have a campaign manager and a data person. Maybe you keep your agency for somethings and bring some tasks in house. 2 people isn't a lot if you want to do everything. You either get expects who can do a few things or you get a jack of all trades who can do everything but maybe not as well as people who specialize in one or two things.
Do experiments as much as you want . And try to make profit from it !
If your campaign doesn't present a clear value proposition to the target audience/consumer, you don't actually have a [well thought out] campaign. Channels, platforms, budgets, etc., are all secondary to this. 
Look at your New/Returning ratio, and look at your Desktop/Mobile ratio. Adjust from there.
My #1 golden nugget - 

Create an exit-intent lightbox prompting a discount code (have the trigger be first-time visitors, have it on product pages, make trigger once lead has been scored high enough, etc)

Once people opt into that lightbox throw them into an automated email campaign telling them that they must convert w/ their "unique" coupon code before 1-2 days. Send 2-3 emails before the deadline and embed a countdown within each email to the deadline.

At the end of the 1-2 day period (aka when the "unique" coupon expires), send the leads who didn't convert an email saying you've extended their coupon so they can still redeem. 

Have introduced this at every company I've been at w/ sufficient success. You don't even need to make each coupon code unique but just generate 8 random characters for it and call it a day.
don't be to hard on yourself and underestimate research
Always ALWAYS know what's happening in the industry and your niche. Do your research before putting out anything. 
Find new ways to do the same old things. There are always new ways, look for them. 
The number one reigning tip for you is creating High-Quality Long form content. Do not go lightly on this. This is not stressed enough for people having blogs and writing blog posts. For ranking better, the kind of content that you push out, has to belong form, and of top notch quality. This kind of content is loved by Google and will eventually help you rank higher too. And also, keep pushing out content regularly. Freshness is also rated highly in Google's eyes.
Hope it helps. Cheers!
Try to build back link for your blog post, in my opinion this the best digital marketing practice to create genuine and organic traffic. Reach out influencer and other blog writers for link exchange. This will give boost to your blog on SERP.
Always test against your/ your team's assumptions but don't get overly lost in minor % difference's until your splashing out millions a month.  


Another good one but much more general marketing is don't forget its humans you are marketing to.
No experiments without initial research. Digital marketing is not magic, constant monitoring of tendencies helps to predict future impact and new tendencies. User's behaviour has patterns and you just need to hit the nail on the head with your offer or ad.
Don't get stuck in just learning...actually implement.
Fail as much as possible.
Steal other people's copywriting format and ad creative 
You can head to Google Academy for Ads and Hubspot Academy. 
If you switch your profile to a business profile, you get insights that tell you when your audience is active, where they're from, how old, gender, etc. You can take that information to know when to post and you can research how to market to that specific group. 
Try reading this book, "Jab, jab, jab, Right hook" by Gary Vayernchuk. It'll help you understand what type of content is suitable for a social media platform. Learn the native language of each platform, learn how to story tell in context of your content.
Follow known instagram marketing influencers with your  target audience and producing content you like and do what they do.
I'd say it's best to learn as you roll with it, trial and error. Post different kind of content alongside different captions and hashtags, see what works for you and what doesn't, optimize and do more of seems to be working well.

Engage with other users on the platform as well, try to be as active as possible with liking and commenting on other people's content. 

Find profiles with big audiences that repost the best content from people that used their dedicated hashtag.

That's just a few simple pieces of advice but it should get the ball rolling for you!
 Follow known Instagram marketing influences with your target audience and producing content you like and do what they do. To choose the right profile picture. Your profile picture is a big part of your first impression on new visitors. For this reason, keep your image consistent with your branding and visual markers.

Consider using your logo or another familiar image. Instagram profile pictures are automatically cropped into a circle, so leave room around the corners of your image.

 Next up — your Instagram bio. Instagram bios have a 150-character maximum, so your goal here is a direct, concise summary of who you are and why people should follow you. Tell your audience about your business using a hint of personality. Instagram bios aren’t searchable, so don’t worry about keywords or hashtags. 
I would suggest a Udemy course. They always have discounts going on so you can usually find a cheap course that covers instagram marketing
I recently saw a video on Youtube, in that the guy hacks an app using lucky patcher and targets people using relevant hashtags and location. Thus making an instagram page more popular among the right audience. Hence increasing its followers. Seach for "digi singh" on youtube for the video.
Great post! Thanks for the info!
Awesome article. I like the idea of being a farmer and not a hunter. This could apply to many digital marketing agencies.

Most agencies out there are frauds who are trying to make a quick buck without having to provide any quality service. It's like they are hunting by cunningly luring prey into their trap.
I like this... 

Thank you... 

I’m traveling through Europe as a full-time freelancer right now. Just need to be able to find pockets of cell-service & WiFi. 
Hey! Exciting plans! I have done this before -- traveled for 14 months in South America and just recently, traveled for a few months in Asia. To be able to sustain this travel lifestyle, I did freelance work. Most of my work assignments revolve around digital marketing and content marketing. And all of my clients I've acquired online, no need for a face-to-face meeting.

To be honest, it was hard for me to travel and work at the same time. Finding the time to do both was challenging for me but if you have the discipline and a strict work schedule, then it should work out just fine. Also, plan your travels ahead of time because once you start, you will always be on the move. You have to plan ahead because you need to take into consideration the travel time and internet connection reliability to every place that you'll go to.

Hope this helps and best of luck! Cheers!
I'd be onboard for this.
Great idea. 
I think additional tags like [Facebook], [AdWords], [Twitter], [Instagram] etc. would also be really useful. I mainly came here for Facebook and Twitter and had to search and sift through a lot to find some of the answers I was looking for. 
I think additional tags like [Facebook], [AdWords], [Twitter], [Instagram] etc. would also be really useful. I mainly came here for Facebook and Twitter and had to search and sift through a lot to find some of the answers I was looking for. 
Google and Facebook both have certification programs. So I would start there to get your bearings and understand how each platform works. 

Then either YouTube or udemy for strategy 

But doing it yourself will be your best teacher! So start a side project
Beyond what's been mentioned I would check out Lynda.com and Coursera. Great places for courses to learn more. 
I would \- make your own wordpress blog and 'seo' it.

\- Do some specific Google analytics & PPC certifications

\- Do the w3 schools html & CSS certifications

good luck
I’m currently doing the Udacity digital marketing nanodegree which is an all round course and gives you experience in running fb campaigns and the foundations. This costs about £800. Also did the google digital garage, adwords and analytics which are free and fb blueprint exams are cheaper. Also just read blogs like moz, HubSpot.
I agree with the comments here. One of the best ways is to just get your feet wet with a blog and test out strategies for yourself.  If you pick a topic you’re interested in, you can have a lot of fun with it. 

To stay updated and continue my learning I listen to podcasts (the Social Media Examiner has a good one), read blogs, and follow groups on different social media platforms.

Typically I try to invest at least a few minutes everyday to do this. You can really learn a lot just by reading what people are saying. 

I’ve also personally used the Google AdWords training program and found it to be very helpful. 

Another training program that I’m a fan of is [Boot Camp Digital](www.bootcampdigital.com). They have different programs and training sessions with videos that focus on many aspects of digital marketing.  Full disclosure - I’m currently doing some part time with them, so this is of course a plug. But I have personally gone through a lot of training and learned a lot. 

Anyway, I wish you the best and if there is anything I can do to help, send me a message. I promise I won’t spam a link. I really do enjoy connecting  to other marketers. :)



I have started compiling the compilation of courses and resources based on the mentoring I have offered to a dozen of people interested in digital marketing and it has helped. Hope it helps you as well:
https://www.teemium.com/learning-path-self-taught-digital-marketing-mastery/
If you are looking to up your Digital Marketing knowledge start with Distilled which will then help you to do the Google certifications once you have finished. 
Google.
This is a great idea!

[Today I spent too much time looking over the MarTech 5000 Supergraphic.](https://chiefmartec.com/2018/04/marketing-technology-landscape-supergraphic-2018/)
Great post as always Walsh, I’ve got an article about how to use Facebook’s organic reach more effectively. https://blog.kissmetrics.com/is-facebook-organic-reach-dead/
I love this also! Interesting study from Nielsen and Twitter
http://todayonsocial.com/2018/04/24/twitter-ads-drive-tv/ 

Also Twitter learning from Facebook's mistake:
https://www.reuters.com/article/us-twitter-privacy/twitter-updates-user-data-policy-ahead-of-new-european-privacy-laws-idUSKBN1HV24N
I come in the mornings have a few things to look over and make sure no fires started. 
- social media properties 
- AdWords campaigns
- analytics reports 

Really these are just for peace of mind and to see if I can find any opportunities to capitalize on. 

Then it's focusing on whatever new task, system, or initiative I have in front of me. This may be adding items to a store, performing some basic SEO tasks, etc etc. 

I usually leave mundane tasks to the end of the day like: 
social media posts, ya ... social media posts specifically. 

I also like to make sure I stay up-to-date with anything new that is developing within the space. It's a lot of fiddling with things and thinking of new and creative solutions to the same problem. 



Entry level ad ops for an in-house team. I work 10-6 pretty much. 


10 am-11: Settle in, check and answer emails, lay out my to-do list for the day. Our other offices are mostly in Europe 5-7 hours ahead, so I usually have a bunch in my inbox to look forward to. 


11 am- 12:30 pm: I usually have a catch up, meeting or conference call with coworkers in international offices during this time. If not, work on whatever is on my to-do list for the day. 


12:30 - 1:30: Pick up lunch. If it's nice out, eat outside. It's still pretty cold in NYC so I eat at my desk but I dont really work. This is me time. 


1:30 - EOD: This is when I actually mostly perform my job duties. Work on various recurring or ad-hoc reports, reply to emails, trafficking, check DBM campaigns to ensure no flights ending/overspending/problems with creatives. Always somehow have a meeting depending on day- it's important to keep track and follow up on meeting notes and optimization recommendations. 


Feel free to ask me anything. I have a pretty laid back job compared to others in this field and it might not be as typical as someone working at an agency but i'm happy to help either way. 
I think that my experience might be of relevance for you as I have joined an agency as my first work.

As a Digital Marketing newbie (working for 2 months in that company so far), my day consists of:

- First looking up at my Client's plan and schedule and make sure that all things regarding Display are up and running as planned;

- Then I will be moving on to update our Email, Affiliate and Display Controls so that I can take some conclusions regarding the performance of the creatives and make recommendations to our client;

- If there is a campaign that might be starting in the near future I need to create the trackers for each support and format so that then I can send to them to implement and test;

 - I also have a lot of training on relevant subjects like Programmatic Ads, Analytics, AdWords, Facebook Ads, etc.

And yeah, that is pretty much it for now... I have just gotten a new client that I will be taking charge on my own, so there's also that, but don't know much about it so far!

Hope my comment is valuable for you :)
i have to work nearly 12-14 hours a day for best result in digital marketing 
Wistia is awesome for this type of information, especially if you're new to video for business. Love their friendly, colorful vibe and lack of jargon.
Awesome! Thank you so much for Sharing. So nice to see people take time out of their day to help others grow their business. Much love 
Indeed, Wistia is a great source for basic info!

If you're getting into video marketing, you might also be interested in interactive videos. There are several tools that allow you to add interactive layers to your videos so you can include questions, click-throughs, contact forms, etc. to make your videos more efficient.

Here's a good basic article on the basic feature of interactive video and some examples: https://www.ojoo.com/interactive-video-examples-business/
Starting video marketing we should have to builds trust and brand awareness, engaging audience, increase return on investment, improve search engine rankings, makes ads more effective.
Is Wistia really worth paying for over youtube? Anyone have personal experience?
RemindMe! One Week
As I started learning about Digital Marketing, the two I've enjoyed were: Online Marketing Made Easy with Amy Porterfield /and/ Social Media Marketing Podcast with Michael Stelzner.  They each touch base on a regular basis all aspects of digital marketing. I'm sure there are others, but these are ones where I've started. 
I think there's a lot ahead of you that you should be excited about! Digital marketing is something I've been doing since the early 2000's and while that might not seem like a long time - the landscape has changed significantly in that time. 

I didn't know what I wanted to do either, so I started with what the "hot" thing was at the time (SEO) and I spent several years trying to be the best I could at it. There was a point when I coould claim 7/10 of the front page spots for targeted keywords and my biggest selling point was telling new client (always met face to face) that I'd have them on the front page before they got back to their office. (The trick was me working ahead of time to get a site ranked, and then updating that site with the client's info). 

I got bored of SEO and took a head-first dive into PPC after that. I spent a few years learning AdWords, Bing PPC,  and about a dozen other platforms. 

That led me to my fascination with the strategy behind a more complex marketing approach and down the rabbit hole I went learning about sales funnels, conversion rates, and trying together campaigns like email, PPC, SEO, social media, etc.

My book recommendations are coming, but I thought it to be an important point to address that it's okay to not know exactly what you want to do, just pick something that's interesting enough to keep your attention for a few years.

Years? Yes - any one if these areas is just too complex to learn and master in a few months (probably a stretch to say you can master them in just a few years) but you will need that time to learn the different aspects of each focus.

Plan ahead and expect to invest some if your hard earned money back into learning. 

Book recommendations would be:

(These will not teach you how to be a digital marketer, but they have significantly helped me throughout my career and I would highly encourage picking them up)

**The Greatest Salesman in the World** by If Mandino

*This book taught me a great deal about patience, persistence, and gave me some of the tools that I still use today to help guide me on choices that we all have to eventually make about the quality of our own work and the value that we bring to others.*

**Trust Me I'm Lying** by Ryan Holiday

*Until reading this book, I would have argued to the grave that bad publicity is a bad thing. It was a fun read that helped me understand to look for the winning angle with the cards / situation that you have to work with.*

**Tools of the Titans** by Tim Ferris

*Not your typical sit down and read type of book, this is a collection of interviews and conversations that Tim has had with some outstanding people. Currently I try to read an excerpt from the book every morning right after I wake up (somewhat like a mental meditation).*

**Influence** by Robert B Cialdini

*Hands down, this is one of those books that will change your life (if you take the time to not just read it, but continually practice some of the techniques it talks about). I've purchased this book about a dozen times, as I'm constantly giving my copy away when I meet someone that has not yet read it.*

**The Compound Effect** by Darren Hardy

*This book did change my life - and in a very significant way after I read it the first time. Now it's something that I try to read at least once every year to remind myself of some of the incredible perspective that it offers (this book taught me to pay attention to all the habits that exist in my life that, like most of us, I didn't exactly choose but are a significant part of my life anyway). Recognizing how many of us make these small decisions that are counter-productive to the career or life that we really want is beyond helpful, it's a real-world guide to getting your act together so that each morning you wake up living the life that you actually dream about.*

**Thinking Fast & Thinking Slow** by Daniel Kahneman

*I think a lot about stuff - and I enjoy doing it. This book helped me understand more about the process of thinking, and that there are many ways to leverage the process of thought to get people to do what you want them to.*

**Who Moved My Cheese** by Spencer Johnson

*Still to this day I get grief about recommending this book as often as I do, but it was paramount in helping me understand the true nature of what I now call 'the daily hustle'. It's a fast and simple read that will show you the value of having more than one source of income in your life.*

**Mad Genius** by Randy Gage

*At times I'm reading more than one book, so it's possible that when I first picked this one up I was simply too involved with whatever else I was reading that the book got put back on my shelf where it sat for almost a year. Once I finally got around to picking it up again, I had no problems reading through it and found myself wishing I had taken the time to read through it before.*

When you're ready to start reading about how to actually get started, here are some free content sources that are amazing:

[**Neil Patel's blog**](http://neilpatel.com/blog/)

This guy knows how to do content marketing and sets the bar pretty high if you want to master the techniques as well as he did. It's still one of the sites that I will read from regularly (I also listen to their podcast, but don't think that's anywhere near as good)

[**DigitalMarketer's blog**](https://www.digitalmarketer.com/blog/)

There's a special place for DigitalMarketer in my life because I've learned so much from them over the last several years. Ryan has a pretty decent approach when he's talking and teaching (and a lot of his team is good too) and the information they give is often the real deal that you don't find anywhere else. My only word of caution would be to proceed with caution as I've spent thousands upon thousands of dollars on their paid courses over the years. I have no regrets in doing so, each time I paid for a course I made far more back from what I learned - but my friends and family think I'm crazy for spending as much as I have.


[**HubSpot's blog**](https://blog.hubspot.com/)

I didn't want to like them, but the simple fact is that they are (and have been for some time) a leader in the digital marketing space and while I might now always care for the style of writing - the content and variety of topics that you can find on their blog is outstanding. 


[**Russell Brunson's blog**](http://russellbrunson.com/)

I can still remember the first video that introduced me to Russell, and I hated him right off the bat. Maybe it was because I happened to catch the video of him driving his Ferrari to work (and was outside in the video chuckling as it began to rain with his top still down). I jumped to conclusions and thought he was a douche - but somehow I ended up with his book, and then one of his other books, and then it was like a learning free-fall with how much this guy has figured out about sales funnels and conversion hacks. I would highly recommend learning whatever you can from him, it'll help no matter what niche you get into with digital marketing. 


I'm sure that I could keep going, but now you have at least some of the tools that I've come across and found valuable throughout my career. Take advantage of the blogs since they're free - and if you can spare the money spend the $38/month to be a paying member of DigitalMarketer where you'll find a boatload of tutorials that take you step by step through a lot of the stuff you might find you have to do as a digital marketer.

If you have any specific questions for me - shoot me a message. I'm happy to help.
For a total beginner, find out what you want to do in the digital marketing realm.  That book will explain to you what digital marketing is defined as, but it will not train you in any specific skillset, it will give you the knowledge to know what you're talking about and how it works towards a marketing team.

If you're looking for a future job or career. Find the career first and dive into everything you need to learn about and get certifications if needed. Don't just read. Practice. 

When I first started, I would create small online companies modeling the specific jobs I wanted to attain.  Then, I would tell the prospective about that product I created or assisted in creating. 
I'm sorry, if it's in a book, it's probably mostly outdated, with the exception of the core marketing principals that apply to any marketing.

The digital marketing space moves fast. I would say your best bet would be to focus on core marketing principals (testing, analytics, data modeling) and follow best practices, articles and blogs of influencers in your given area of interest.

Find job descriptions of companies you'd like to work in, see how they describe the positions and find information around those areas.  Then, go forth and practice it for awhile.  Maybe start by volunteering to do so for a community organization, a club, or something.

Just my $0.02 as someone whose been in the space since before spam existed.  I've never seen a book worth the price, I've always learned from the community at large.
What are your goals and/or what do you envision yourself doing that makes you happy?

"Digital marketing" is a broad category.
Thanks for sharing these are reference!
I prefer you to go through some online tutorials too, yeah books are the best choice but some online stuff might be helpful too for you.
I would say that there is no textbook that can teach you digital marketing because its evolving on a very fast pace, and as a beginner the best you can gain is only by sitting on the internet and reading more and more blogs and then experimenting the same on the practical  front because there is no knowledge gained if not tried and tested 
Read a shit ton, implement what you can and then learn from your mistakes.

Regarding the reading, here are some sites I frequent:
- MOZ for SEO
- Social Media Examiner for social...obviously
- Jon Loomer for Facebook
- Distilled for more SEO and content marketing
- Shopify blog for e-commerce 

I don't focus on PPC too much, and I'm sure the same rules apply, but with regards to Facebook advertising... TEST. ABSOLUTELY. EVERYTHING. Seriously, take 5-10% of your ad budget and test every variable or demographic you're considering and then hammer the best performing with 90% of the budget. 

Look up influencer marketing if you want to check out Instagram, Snapchat and YouTube for business. 

Check out Gary Vaynerchuk on YouTube. Some find him obnoxious but honestly, he speaks a lot of common practical sense that you can learn from and apply to your own day-to-day. 

Hope this helps. Good luck!
Learn google tag manager.  It will help you track things on websites that you'll need for your clients like what external links are clicked it what videos are played and how much of the video is viewed. Learning about utm code best practices will be helpful.  Get a subscription to SEOmoz, read their blogs. Learn about local search and read up on mobile trends, you'll be asked about those. Agree with your client about what you're tracking upfront and why. Be analytics driven. Automate reporting as much as you can and keep it as simple as you can. Buying banner space directly from publishers I find to be the most expensive.  Try to get space from auction models if your client is flexible like from the google display network.  But also think outside of banners.  Generally buy on cpc not cpm. 
Here's a blog I've written for in the past that has lot of good content on PPC, Adwords, & Analytics - https://klientboost.com/blog/

Heatmaps are the easiest thing in digital marketing, so I wouldn't worry too much about those, but if you want to find some content, another site I've written a lot for is a heatmap SaaS company. Needless to say, they have a lot of relevant content you can check out on that topic - https://blog.crazyegg.com/
I have to say that reading about your serendipity is slightly frustrating, as I've been on the hunt for 6 months for a position you landed on accident.

I totally second the other three posters. However, the one big piece I have to add is don't let it overwhelm you. There are a lot of areas to spend time and a lot of tools to learn. State the scope of the positition, rank the importance of strategies and tools you need to learn, and work on one at a time until fluency. Making a definitive list will show you it's not impossible. You'll get it -just don't let it overwhelm you.
Read through this:
https://www.campaignmonitor.com/blog/email-marketing/2016/03/definitive-guide-to-40-definitive-marketing-guides/

Especially the second Moz - Noob Online Marketing guide. This on helps you understand the different types of digital marketing and how they all work coherently. 

I was in the same boat as you a year ago. In short, I was tasked with creating logos for the company and its products (20+ logos), a website, and now their entire digital marketing "department". Oh, and I'm the only person in this "department". My background you ask? I'm a science major, certified IT technician, and part-time graphic designer. 

I'm sure you'll be fine. Good luck!
I was in the same boat just under a month ago (I still am, but persevere, you'd be surprised at how much sinks in!) 
Keep up with the news, as said below - this round up is pretty helpful

http://www.ricemedia.co.uk/blog/monthly-round-10-things-happened-digital-marketing-july/

 and this SEO glossary is super helpful http://www.ricemedia.co.uk/blog/seo-glossary-common-seo-terms-explained/

Learn digital marketing from top-notch global experts! The interactive courses at the Digital Marketing Institute of America are created on practical, real-life experience of what is required when applying online marketing techniques in today’s fast-paced world. Our digital marketing courses are FREE and taught online, via video-based lessons.

Check out: http://www.dmioa.com/
No.
No. But I do feel it sometimes helps. For some candidates that I see, they include their portfolio which includes projects that they have done in the past. Having a strong online presence is kind of your portfolio. Shows your creativity and copywriting skills is your post are written well.
Genuine question, why do you want to work in the space if you don’t participate in it? 

Don’t get me wrong I neglect my own SM presence because I do it for work, but I do still have all of them so I can better understand what’s going on from a user perspective.
Is it an issue that you don't have an accounts on these platforms? No. 

But only if you have in-depth knowledge about how to create and produced successful campaigns through the said platforms. If you don't have accounts with these platforms, you probably don't have in-depth knowledge on how things like the Ads Manager work for creating campaigns. And that would be the issue here.
Nah bro unless you’re an influencer
No. Even if you did you should keep in private.
Most are saying No but let me be devil's advocate. I do look at social media presence but not how you think. I see it as extended learning. Show me you leverage tools like social to study the competiton/industry, understand trends, best practices, breaking news, rumor reports, etc
No but it helps
See,Its not compulsion that you have to make social media presence to get job in digital marketing,as in digital marketing there are many channels like SEO,PPC,Email marketing,SMM ,you have to decide first in which channel you want to be expert. but yes it will increase you experience to work in digital marketing,as digital marketer should be updated in all such sites which gives new trends every day to work in this industry.
Nope not at all. I use social media for work but not really personally. They don’t care about that. You can learn trends at any time
I must say you should have an understanding of the social media and how it's works. trust me it's not tough. keep an eye on each social media channel and understand how marketing works there. Good luck
No, but having a good social media presence helps you to showcase your abilities to the employer.
I’m head of digital advertising department and recently needed to hire two new team members. I cant say that their social media presence was critical, but it was still important. 

For example, I need my advertisers to be smart and witty, not only knowing tools and understanding data. They have to work with graphic design teams, write copy for ads tailored to specific channel. So I looked around their social media accounts a little bit before making a decision. 

Also, for me one of the most important thing is how new member will fit in my team. And having a snoop on social media can help you estimate if persons characteristics will fit your group dynamic.
I think its important to have a social media presence. You are into digital marketing, right? Shouldn't you be good in sharing seeing you are in a field where sharing is obviously a major part of the deal?
You need at least 5K followers on each platform to get remotely close to landing a job in DM. Good luck my friend.
I am not sure why digital marketers need to know html and css since there is WordPress and/or other alternatives.

That said, i wouldn't bother with web development since 35% of the internet \[websites\] runs on WordPress.

&#x200B;

Now if there is something that would separate some digital marketers from the rest of the pack, then, design and behavioral economics would do the trick.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Its like Centres in the NBA... typically you dont need to and are not expected to shoot 3 pointers....but what if you can?

&#x200B;

For sure it will be an advantage.
This question is too vague to really answer. OP define what you mean by “digital marketing”

I’ve been doing digital marketing strategy for the last 12 years. I define that as everything from website strat (Info architecture, requirements gathering, to content strategy), social strategy (community engagement, channel management and content strat), email marketing strat. And digital media strat (display, paid search, paid social) and  None of those need you to touch code. 

If digital marketing to you means strategy (planning) and the “doing” of things (seo strat and execution, building emails, building sites, building display ad units) then yes - you’ll need various levels of coding. 

That said, having an understanding of coding won’t hurt you as it gives you additional insight into the technical aspect of the projects. 

That’s why you’re seeing conflicting answers to your question.

Edit: cleaned up my formatting a bit.
Pretty much anyone in Digital Marketing needs to know basic HTML/CSS, no way around that. Javascript is a nice to have but you can copy+paste most stuff once you know a bit about it.

I think you're at an absolute insane disadvantage without this knowledge if you want to go into digital marketing.
You do not need to know ANY coding. 

It might be beneficial at times, but it’s not a barrier anymore. 

With software like Wordpress anyone can launch a website in minutes without touching a line of code. 

And for actual marketing funnels, you still don’t need to do anything technical thanks to plugins and SaaS. 

If you can use a mouse then you already have all the technical skills you need.
If you know how to modify/edit/create landing pages or modify landing pages from scratch, (Using CSS/HTML/JS/etc) you can work within any CMS that your client is already running. That makes it a lot easier to get results for your client if you can get them a better landing page than everyone else that reports better, more nuanced data.

Is it mandatory? No--but put yourself in the client's shoes. Who are you more likely to sign a large contract with? The digital agency that also understands the foundation of the web, how websites are coded, and how to extract actionable metrics from how people interact with your website for your digital ad campaigns? 

Or would you rather hire the company that sends PPC traffic to the homepage or just hacks together awful WP plugins and themes that give them the same generic metrics everyone else gets? 

I see a lot of people saying you don't need any coding, or that you can launch a website in minutes in WordPress...

These are the people that I constantly win business from because their sites fall apart, look like shit, are too slow, get broken, are poorly designed, not responsive, not customer-focused and ultimately cost them more in the long run.

Knowing how to setup GTM, and to get proper nuanced data from campaigns from a fast landing page is paramount in digital marketing. Knowing the underlying code for these things will make you a better digital marketer. Period.
There is no need to learn too deep coding for the digital marketers. But they should have the basic knowledge of CSS and HTML.  On the other hand, if they have the JS knowledge then it will also be a plus point for them.
Don't post about your products. Post about your audience.
Can't really tell you much as I'm not sure what sort of products you are selling but I guess at this stage where there is so much noise and unfavorable algorithm change for brands....you should just focus on content quality. Could be as few as once a month or once a quarter..but everytime you post, it is something ppl will look forward to!
Customer pictures are always great - If not try creating blogs that are relevant to the products you sell. Blogs are handy for SEO as well as giving you content to promote on social media.
Honestly just based on my opinion, do not drop out. It’s better to have a degree and pursue your other interest in any free time you may have (without sacrificing your studies). Even with a lower GPA, your skills you acquire from the collegiate classes and applying them and practicing while in school and after will aid you in the future. IT is a great career path and in the technologically advancing world and your craft will be sought after. Keep at it! You got this
The it degree might help you figure out some trick stuff in digital marketing... But generally have nothing to do with digital marketing... But if you're out on your own he might figure out some ways to use those skills to get a leg-up or figure out some software that helps you automate something that makes more money while arbitraging.
Let me give you the advice I wish I had gotten: FINISH YOU DEGREE no matter what.  A degree is a giant checkbox that needs to be ticked by the brainless morons that fill so many HR departments.  While you may be thinking now you want to be a business owner for the rest of your life, having a degree will make it so much easier if you ever do want to go get a job somewhere else.  

&#x200B;

...And don't bother with an MBA.  They are on their way out...I don't honestly know why anyone gets MBAs anymore or even hires these people.  Most successful people I know hate working with MBAs because they basically have two tools in their belt:  cutting costs, and outsourcing.  MBAs destroy companies.  If you ever do decide to go for masters, take a few extra classes and switch to a Masters in Marketing, not a Marketing MBA.

&#x200B;

Lastly, having a degree in IT will make you a perfect candidate to do marketing for the IT industry.  The highest paid marketers are extremely niche-focused and have strong backgrounds within their niche.  I'd rather hire someone with an IT degree who learned digital marketing on the side, than a person with a marketing degree who knows nothing about IT.  

&#x200B;

Good luck.
Possessing an IT degree and then pivoting into digital marketing (maybe doing an MBA addon later) is a unique career path. You basically get to work on some of the key stuff guys from business school aren't comfortable with - be it SEO, Google Adwords or Marketing Analytics. Plus if you're a good programmer, you can code your own scripts for data aggregation, mining and most importantly, generating the reports.
Get your IT degree and then look into working in ad tech.
Definitely, especially if your school keeps you up-to-date with the latest practices used in the IT field. IT is always one of the best foundations one can have to excel in the digital marketing industry. Have a degree in IT will give you the advantage.

Plus, the diploma you'll get will speak much about how you got it through college, not to mention it's IT, which is a difficult course.
Sure its really worth . There are many Graduates looking for IT jobs ,Depend on the IT courses you can get a good job in IT Company .
Personally, I'm on the side of any "Self Made Digital Marketing Guru" is full of shit, and they are the biggest problem with the digital marketing industry right now. Most of these guys build libraries of courses/classes/videos/etc. and give away a lot of 101 level knowledge for free, then charge you for more info. But that "more info" never really comes. 

Their entire business model is not built on being digital marketing gurus - it's selling their courses to new people in the industry. Hell, many of these (like dropshipping courses) end with the guy telling you to start your own courses, and around we go. (I guess in that vein, they are good at what they do). 

If you really want to learn more about digital marketing and make a career out of it, I'd start with the basic resources online, including content from the platforms themselves (Google, Facebook, etc.). 

For more content to read, I'd suggest: 

* HubSpot 
* Social Media Examiner 
* Social Media Explorer 
* Moz 
* Search Engine Journal 
* Buffer (Blog)
* Sprout Social (Blog)  

These are good entry-level resources to give you a baseline of digital advertising + other practices in this space. 

&#x200B;
I was in a similar position two years ago, no experience, but I really wanted to try out digital marketing. I did one and a half unpaid internships. They were pretty easy to find in my area. Then from there I sat down one day and applied/sent emails to every local marketing agency that I could find, even if they didn’t have job openings posted. A small one contacted me a month later and hired me. I learned so much there and made amazing connections that have helped propel me. I’d recommend trying something similar before going straight into freelance work by yourself. Learning on the job from people with more experience is just so much more valuable than a paid online course in my opinion. 
I’m in a similar situation right now. I’m currently going through Hubspots free certification. They have a lot of different aspects and trainings of digital marketing that they offer all for free
You'd be well served to work for someone and learn the trade before you can get expect clients to pay for the privilege of your work.
Lynda.com. Aim for getting a full time job ASAP. Then pay for better and better courses, from reputable providers like Udacity. 
I've been thinking about this myself. I've found a couple of post grad certificates in digital marketing that are offered by local colleges and universities in Toronto. I'm not sure whether I should pursue digital marketing or data analysis. I've read numerous articles state that digital marketing is actually a waste of time and doesn't work as well as people think it does. There are some jobs, but I wonder if this career path has a future.
I'd be cautious if I were you. Get an entry level job and learn the ropes for a year before diving in to this.

Are you prepared to cover an angry client's overspend when you screw up and go 3x over their budget? This happens with even experienced marketers. What happens when they start asking you slightly more than basic questions about what is happening or what else they can do and you stutter on the call and they realize you don't know wtf you're doing? 

The dream isn't dead but it isn't easy. You need big-fish clients that are going to see through an amateur and never give them a chance. You won't be able to do it with clients paying you $400 a month. At that point you might as well work at a company and get the perks that come with it as well.
I like the concept, but digital marketers don’t always like sharing their secrets.

If you figure out a hot new angle or niche or method for brining in sales people are obviously reluctant to share that information, because soon everyone will be doing it and there goes your competitive edge.

It’s not like the developer community where open source and sharing is the motto. It’s much the reverse unfortunately.

The only time people share their secrets is when they get something out of it, which usually means they want to sell you something.

If it’s just normal stuff like “how do I install a tracking pixel” or “how do I make a landing page” etc then it could work I guess, but that information is also easily available on Google.

Sorry I don’t mean to burst your bubble, but I’ve seen a few of these ideas come and go without working out as expected.
Just a quick preface, I'm relatively new to working professionally as a digital marketer. I work full-time for an organization helping with the digital marketing of our clients and our own company. 

>1)Do you often have questions related to your work / profession that can be answered by other people in your field? 

Most definitely

>2)How do you usually resolve these questions? Where do you go to find that information? (eg: personal contacts, whatsapp groups, organizations, or other online / offline methods) 

Depends. If I'm looking for a quick tip for some thing I'm somewhat familiar with I'll do a few Google searches until I find something I feel was helpful. If it's a more advanced topic or if I couldn't find the answer to what I was looking for originally ill check Udemy and then maybe Lynda.

>3) Imagine being part of a community of other people in the same profession as you. What do you think about this idea? How helpful would this be for your career? What would you use this community for?

Im not necessarily active on online communities as I prefer to study online courses or books, but this is something I'm looking to change. I definitely see the value in this kind of interaction but most of the time I'll like an answer now and will use this community to answer questions I can't find answers to else where or just to learn how others approach certain aspects of digital marketing.  Its hard to tell how helpful this will be to my career but I can for sure see it being helpful to some degree.

>4) Are you already part of such communities?  (eg: online / offline, whatsapp, organizations, colleagues, their personal networks etc) Could you please name them? 

In regards to Digital marketing I'm part of a few communities from some Udemy courses I purchased but I rarely check them. I do however check my web Development communities as I have an interest in the subject and I also attend wordcamp every year. I also check stack overflow of course.


>5) Please describe your experiences with these communities. 

I love wordcamp and the WordPress community as a whole. I find everyone to be quite helpful and willing to answer questions and share their expertise. As I don't follow the digital marketing communities there isn't much I can say about them. Stack overflow is a great source of information and I can usually find what I'm looking for within a few searches
Excellent copywriters and creative marketers can crush it on Facebook and IG (managing ad campaigns). Great copy can be the difference between profitable ads and poor ones, provided everything else is executed well (targeting, video/image creative, other technical settings).

Consider it! Especially if you’ve got a great interest/knack for data driven decision making.
There is a shortage of data scientists and it is very well paid so certainly have a look into that. If you can master Power BI, for example, that’s a niche which will keep you in work and well paid.
Seems like all the money is in being a "guru" and selling courses. 
Analytics in general is massively in demand. It’s so hard to find people and most companies (not just agencies) need analysts. Social media analytics is a good niche and might use more of your writing/editing skills. 
I agree with all  who gave valuable suggestions regarding the same but I personally believe find the piece that you really love and you want to do for the whole life. I Personally belive you have money in every domain every field, every industry.

Just check for yourself which industry you think there are no GURU's. Which doesn't make money.

Find the piece you love you will be there eventually...

All the best..
show your value. Find a local organization that could use your help and show them how you can be of help.
I'm a digital marketing manager for an African based telecommunications app. Our main office is in London though so I can't help you get hired unless you're here. But if you have any social media information or a website / portfolio online, I'd be happy to share it around. 
There’s a whole range of skill sets under digital, and different career tracks. 

There’s the technical aspect, where you specialise in the technical/operational aspect of DM; eg on-site SEO, coding, web development, executing media buy/PPC etc people within this career track end up as more technical performance specialists. 

There’s also the strategy aspect of DM, where people specialise in overall strategy planning, such as campaigns to run, which media channels to buy, which influencers to engage etc. People here usually end up as strat planners/head of strategy.

There’s also the data track of DM, where people look into using data to improve marketing initiatives, through data mining, research, visualization and analysis. Career tracks: data analyst.

Finally, there’s the digital generalist, which are usually the jacks of all trade, with experience across the above mentioned functions within DM. They are the ones who tend to end up as all rounded digital managers/directors in smaller digital setups, or as a business director.

Depends on your interests, there are various trainings to dive into. Good luck!! 
I think HubSpot's Inbound Certification will give you a good place to start. It's free and it gives you some of the main elements of digital marketing to get you grounded. Like SEO, content marketing, email marketing, social, etc. You'll be exposed to a few things and you can see what you start to gravitate towards.

Good luck!


Good email marketing (nurture funnels) are always in demand. 
I recommend looking for an entry-level role at a small business or startup. Then you'll have the opportunity to dapple in a lot of those elements and see which one you like best as you develop your career. 
Look at threads where people have asked similar questions and find the most comprehensive answers with the most upvotes. 
if you are a beginner you have to learn something about digital marketing like SEO  and most important part that how to get traffic to your offers and i am frankly saying you have to give some hours to learn this as a Newbie but after learning everything there are lot of chance to make your Future In Digital Marketing. There are lot of companies giving freelancers jobs so you can make Some Revenue From Home but for this you have to expert on your Niche and come with confidence on digital marketing Field if you will success No one can stop to fly in sky and it will Rain of Revenue 
What's your current role and goal?

If you're ops or campaign side you could get away with being an expert in one or two.

Broadly? Omni channel is the future. There are a half dozen major channels that could draw your attention: Email, Search, Social, Display, Video and Native that could draw your attention and dozens of tactics and campaign types within each of those. 
If you want to specialize hard in PPC/SEM kind of stuff, know about every channel. Spend extra time in the ones you think will be most useful for whatever you’re doing. My advice might’ve been different a couple years ago, but now it’s omnichannel.. diversified. 100% 
I recommend specializing but most recruiters think you should know everything in PPC. 🙄
As a marketer, I would suggest you dabble at all of them but specialize in only one. Because it is hardly realistic to become an expert in all of them. And also micro is the new thing. 
When you're marketing anything, there is one platform that will bring you the largest portion of your traffic. It's different for different businesses. Some find Twitter useful. For some, Instagram is their biggest traffic converter. So, you gotta find what's your "thing" and be an expert in it. 
It depends on the role and level of activity / time required etc.

Eg one company might need a full time Google PPC specialist where as others would be fine with having a general paid specialist who operates over multiple channels.

Generally, it’s good to know multiple channels. 
You should try every channel whether it is FB, Google and, Amazon. After having a practical experience in all these channels. You can pick any one of this to be a specialist. I would not recommend you to be good only at one in the early days of your career. 
You should know about all digital marketing channels. It gives you a well rounded view. But it's impossible for anyone to become an expert on all of these. 

Each channel is unique and has many different aspects. The channels are constantly changing and evolving. There are new channels coming up every few months. So it's physically impossible to stay on top of every channel and become an expert. 

Having said that, you should try to become really good at more than one channel. I am recommending this for two reasons 

* It makes you more valuable and less likely to become obsolete if the channel goes down in popularity 
* Learning related channels makes you more effective at all of them

Let me illustrate with an example. Think about someone who focused only on Twitter 3 years ago when it was near its peak. If that person did not become really good at other social media like Insta or FB, he will be out of demand today as Twitter has become less attractive to businesses. 

So you should learn about all and then go deeper with 2-3 related ones you find most exciting. 
The market definitely wants specialists/experts, that's where the hard skills are. I'd say focus in SEM because that's the most complex or RTB as it's the most recent and therefore not as much competition to get a job. The rest you can learn easily and it's a good plus. Big companies will hire a specialist for each channel while small companies will want someone that can do a little bit of everything so that's also something that you can factor in your decision.
100% yes.  It provides a couple of things to you:  First, you get a broader knowledge of marketing, which is far more helpful whether you are a single channel manager or a multi-channel manager.  Second, it provides you a ton more career choice.  If you choose to only do PPC, I sure hope you are going to love it the rest of your life as without knowledge of how the other channels work, you will be stuck.  Sort of on the other side, if you don't try other channels, how do you know what you like and don't like?  And third, people may disagree with this which is fine, but the world is moving toward more omni-channel right now.  Automation is forcing execution of individual channels away and more toward overarching strategy roles - which require broader thinking (totally understand there is some debate around this, but if you look at the trends of taking in-house, consulting companies buying agencies, agency holding companies trying to build consulting practices, and brands hiring for ecom, they tend to point in this direction).  Learn every channel as much as you can.  You can provide exponentially more value by knowing some of all channels than being an expert in just one (note: this doesn't apply to life, just digital marketing).
It’s better to know something about every channel than to only ever work within one channel. That’s called being siloed and it’s the best way to never advance. Being curious and willing to get outside your comfort zone is so important. You don’t have to know every detail about every channel but general familiarity is goood. 
I got into digital marketing via politics. I knew a few platforms really well and when I launched my own business, I set out to learn "all of them." Quickly realized I was never going to be passionate about some (aka Pinterest) and while I try to have a general overarching understanding of the different platforms, I decided to focus in and be great at a few things, rather than okay at a lot of things. So far, it's been the right strategy for me.
it depends. if you are working in a small sized company, you need to have knowledge about all these different platforms. but in a big sized companies, usually each of these platforms are run by one or more digital marketing experts, experts specialized in that platform. So, first decide where you want to work and then make your knowledge general or special.
[removed]
I have next to no knowledge about digital marketing, but I would say it's good to know a bit of each, and really focus on one and make it your specialty and area of expertise.
You can **earn** high-quality links by creating an amazing piece of content that is useful to a certain group of people. The content can take various shapes - step-by-step guides, term definitions, tools... - but it needs to solve a particular problem for this particular set of users. 
If your piece of content solves the problem best but also if it's easy to find/promoted/ranks at top positions in search engines, you'll be able to **earn** links. 

As for the quality of those links? It all depends on the topic and industry and you can't really control who gives you the links and how good of a quality they are. But the best thing about those links is that they will be truly earned (natural) and you'll get the backlinks from sites that are relevant to your niche, which is also great. For someone to give you a link without you asking for it, means that they've found you useful enough to share with others. Which in turn means that you're gaining their trust and are establishing yourself as an authority in the field, which Google loves and rewards. These types of links also have the tendency to get clicked on more, which is also great.

Here's a quick example: I am newly-pledged in the keto diet and I want to build a no-brain menu for a couple weeks ahead without spending much time to research on recipes but I also want to have variations and not get bored with what I eat - all in all, I want it all handed to me. I may search for "weekly keto menu" or "keto meals" or whatever. I want to find a particular solution to my problem and if yourwebsite provides me with that solution I will share it with my friends who are also on keto, here on Reddit where other people have a similar problem, and may even link to it if I have a blog or something.... You get the gist. 

Creating the links yourself, or even helping with the creation of links, is an entirely different topic. Some of the tactics involved are already mentioned by other users.
Best ways to earn high-quality backlinks:

1. Forum Postings
2. Social bookmarking
3. Local Business listings
4. Participating in question and answer websites
5. Blog creation and blog commenting
6. Guest posting
7. Infographic submissions
8. Article/classified submissions
9. Document/Video submissions
10. Web2.0 submissions...etc
  

Generating quality backlinks is very essential in terms of gaining visibility on the major search engines. But before generating backlinks you have to check the domain authority and page authority of a website where you are going to create a link.   
 

I would suggest a few ways.

**1. Guest post**

**2. Public relations**

**3. Broken link building**

**4. Skyscraper content**

**5. Compile a resource**

**6. Find competitors’ backlinks and start building backlink on them**
What's your website about? Is it a business website?

I like to think of link building as partnership building. It's not just you who is looking to benefit from the article/webpage you're making but so is the website/business that will be sharing your link. The question is, what benefit exists for them to link to your website?

Here's a strategy I'm putting together for a client today. They run a local outdoor/garden hardware store (chainsaws, lawnmowers, water blasters...you get the idea) that sells well-known and lesser known brands.  We are going to be creating videos and blog posts on how to service and maintain certain products and brands. This is content that will be helpful to all owners of the products. 

Before I even think about creating any content, I'm first reaching out to the manufacturers of said products with some content ideas and getting them to agree to share that content on their news/blog and social media pages. Rather than spending time creating content and hoping for the best, I'm negotiating with brands first and "earning" a backlink before any content even exists. This content is going to be helpful to that manufacturer's customers so I get their input and create something that will be of benefit to both parties.

&#x200B;
Create high quality back-links is a part of Search Engine Optimization. It is one of the most important ranking factor by many search engines. 

* Follow the broken-link building method
* Submit Infographics which is the most popular methods for bringing traffic to your website and gaining valuable backlinks.
* Guest blogging is the effective way to reach new audiences and also get high quality backlinks. (You need to contact bloggers or websites that are related to your niche and post /submit content on weekly or monthly basis.) 
* To get links to your website, you have to reach journalists and influencers which are working in your niche. Spread the word about your business.
* Find nonprofit organizations and give some donations you to earn backlinks. 
* Reviews Submission is also be the another best option  

Furthermore, you can directly PM me for more details or technical help. 
There are various ways through which you can earn quality backlinks as below:

* Guest posting on quality sites.
* It is important to build public relations. The best way is to get cited as a source in a news article. 
* Fix your broken links.
* Write a quality content. 
* Find the backlinks build by the competitors and build yours there.

&#x200B;
Generating high quality backlinks is time consuming. I suggest you follow the process mentioned above and I would add sponsored article.

This can be automated through a native advertising platform by location, domain authority, media topic... Depending on your location I can help with this task.
Social Bookmarking

Blog commenting

Forum Postings

Ad Postings
Check Ahrefs and backlinko. They have lots of ideas. 
recently all brands and influencer have run the Campaign some of them give amazing offer.
The free courses at Moz are a great start. They're thought leaders and know their shit.

https://moz.com/learn/seo
You can check out backlinko YouTube channel,  he is great with Seo.. 
If you can afford ~$15/mo for hosting (some less, some more), I suggest building your own affiliate website and try to rank it. During that process, you will learn a ton about what it means to be an SEOer. 

Head over to /r/juststart for everything to help you get started.
I would suggest moz and some udemy paid courses as well. They are only 10 bucks and you will learn something. 

Also there is a blog about SEO called backlinko.

Google it this guy knows his shit.
There are many free course available on Udemy . 
Check your library and see if your library card gets you access to Lynda.com

You'll get loads of free courses in SEO and UX, and they'll give you certifications you can publish on your LinkedIn! Shows initiative and drive and that you are eager to learn. 
I think forums and online communities are the best.Beacause there are many problems out there from which you can learn daily.
There are many SEO blogs which you can go through and get different tips and tricks related to SEO. Some of the best blogs are Google Webmaster Central Blog, Search Engine Land, Search Engine Journal, The SEM Post, etc.
Best way to learn SEO is to implement practically and the best way to do is to open a blog or a website and do all the experiments there and for initial guidelines follow moz blog and ahrefs blog 
There are many free course available but I suggest you watch the video of SEO beginners guidelines & Digital Marketing.
Search Engine Optimization or more commonly known as SEO is a procedure to maximize the website visits through quality organic search engine results.

It is a method of improving a particular website’s visibility and rankings by means of increased organic click-through rate (CTR).

&#x200B;

>What other important tools or programs are useful for digital marketers?

1. **Google Analytics**
2. **Google Webmaster Tools**
3. **Bing Webmaster Tools**
4. **Google AdWords Keyword Planner**
5. **Keywordtool.io**
6. **Screaming Frog**

Map listings, videos, statistics, graphs and more are also several other listings that can help your website to appear and rank high in the search engine results.

As a digital marketing strategy, **Glorywebs** provides ***search engine marketing solutions*** with the help of ***organic SEO services*** for your preferred targeted web audience.
If you have some basic knowledge then online websites like [https://moz.com](https://moz.com), [https://searchengineland.com/](https://searchengineland.com/) and [https://neilpatel.com/](https://neilpatel.com/) are enough. But if you don't have much prior SEO knowledge and looking for a personal SEO coach then would suggest having a look at [https://www.fantasktick.com/seo-training-online-course-personal-coach](https://www.fantasktick.com/seo-training-online-course-personal-coach)
There's a free SEO course at SEO101.com
There are many online platform or websites to learn SEO, Some websites are-

Web Savvy marketing

SEO 101

google

[Moz.com](https://Moz.com)

webmaster world
 

You can read anything by Moz  and Rand Fishkin

And Lots of great SEO content from Neil Patel

Follow Neil Patel's Blogs and YouTube channel, these will help you well.

Good luck!
Sounds like you’ve bitten off a lot here - without having hands on experience, I’ll be honest, you seem slightly ill placed, however I can’t knock your entrepreneurial approach. 

Here’s what I would suggest. 

1. Understand what success looks like for each of these clients. 
2. Create your own measurement framework/scoring system for each element - use this as an initial audit and present to them (standardising will make life much easier).
3. From their objectives/success KPI and the measurement framework, identify the opportunities. 
4. Agree the opportunities you’re going after AND commercials against these. 

In the background you need to be working on your process, soft skills and tech requirements. 

You’re in a position where you can also easily over promise and not understand the time you’ll need - make sure you get an understanding of the market in your area when you quote. 

You probably also want to get an expert mentor to help guide you. 

Hope this is just the beginning! 
There’s a host of soft skills you need to rally aside from DM. 
CRM
Invoicing
Negotiations 
Reporting
And more. Dont drop the ball there. 
Consistent client communication. Agree on expectations (monthly or weekly calls depending on budget) and make it happen. Beyond good fulfillment, I credit most of my retention to having built good relationships with clients via monthly status calls. It’s easier to fire a vendor than a friend, etc. And it needs to be genuine - when a client really thinks you care about the success of their business, you get a lot of latitude to experiment, make mistakes, and improve your processes.
You can't take care of everything. Make sure you have a designer/photographer/film/copywriter person that can help you with creating the content + ads. Let your client know that social ads need to be rotated at least 1 per month. Most of the clients that I have worked with and failed is due to too little budget/unrealistic expectations and their inability to produce the quantity of multimedia required to have an effective digital marketing strategy.
Set expectations appropriately 
You have to be able to deliver on what you spoke of...first and foremost.  Start with the low hanging fruit to help you build momentum and go from there.  If you have any questions, let me know.
Never work for free.
I don't understand how to add FAQ to your listings . I have looked all over for this and can't seem to find it. The only solution I have heard is to go on your company account and literally submit the questions and answer them . Is that waht you are referring to?
American here and I agree with you. A landing page is meant to stand alone while pages on a website, including the homepage, depend on other pages for context. A landing page is also meant to tell a prospect to take action while non-landing pages don't have to have an action.
Your definition is right, but Google Analytics also defines a Landing Page as the first page someone lands on on your website. So...he's also sorta right, but only if the traffic hits there first.
Yes, you're right. 

I worked at a company where we were always instructed to make "landing pages" with a bunch of call-to-actions, in addition to the product listings plus more information. No, these are regular pages. Plus, it's never good to have a bunch of (unrelated) CTAs.. However, sometimes those pages were hailed as good examples by the higher-ups who didn't know better.

I hated it. They clearly didn't know what they were doing and I didn't have the authority to correct them. Happily I'm no longer there.
Your definition is correct.  
Guys is talking about creating a marketing funnel over a website probably. So all pages do become landing pages in a way.

Both are corrent. You are watching from singularity while he from whole point of view. 
  

Landing pages in web design is a page that’s disconnected from your website. Typically these pages don’t have navigation, and they are used to capture email addresses or promote a product. Landing pages for email marketers is place where the email traffic is sent, the destination of your email click-throughs.
You are correct. Landing pages have one goal for me and that's to convert a user. 
I see the popular opinion and tend to agree with it, but doesn’t GA call any page a user enters a website a “landing page?”
I personally agree with GA's definition. Why add more confusion than necessary? Call it what you want, but I like to stay consistent
I’m with you - a landing page is a page where a single action is emphasized in order to gain a conversion. However, it things it more of a semantic thing than anything else, as in you "land" at a certain page. In any case, a landing page is a very specific concept and that anyone involved with marketing should clearly know.  
Salesforce, Pardot, Zapier, Slack, and Google Drive 
Slack, Hubspot, Drift, Pandadoc, and Lucky Orange
ClickUp for task management

Toggl for time tracking

ActiveCampaign/Hubspot/etc for automation - depending on the clients environment

Buffer for SM as a good 'ok' tool if they don't have anything in place

Mailchimp for email campaigns 
 Moz Pro,  BuzzStream, DRIP, Teamwork, HubSpot Marketing.
Aside from what's already been mentioned, I would add: AirTable (task management), Nightwatch (SEO), Help Scout (Help desk email software), Grammarly (content grammar reviewer), and Hunter (finding emails for outreach). 
TTD

GA

FB

Ghostery, moat, similar web

My strategists brainpower
1. Google sheet- for planing, media calendar, tracking and collaboration 

2. Powtoon for video contents 

3. Canva for image and inforgraphics

4. Semrush

5. CRM tool from sales force, hibspot and more..
keyword planner, hellobar, google analytics, hotjar, mailerlite
Time to add mine ;) 

Autopilot HQ:⚡️ (super underrated) 10x times better than mailchimp. Allows to integrate with twilio for sending sms and segmenting audiences and work flows 

Google Ad words:👂

ClickFunnels: 💩 love the builder (hate the API) 

Typeform:  ⌨️

Hubspot: ☢️

Bonus — hotjar 🔥 
Great thread. Following. 
What do you guys use to track Facebook ad campaigns? 
That's very hard, but:

Capsule, Zapier, Google Drive, Google Tag Manager, Mailchimp
Don't forget Asana.  
Majority of my work is in SEO, but use these on pretty much a daily basis:
Ahrefs - might just be the best all-round SEO tool on the market given all the features it has now
STAT - most comprehensive keyword tracking tool, for sure
GA - to understand the what and where of user behaviour 
UserZoom - to understand the how and why of user behaviour
Asana - for internal project management

The other tool I use almost daily is Basecamp for client comms, but I don't think it's great by any means. In fact my friends and I are so disillusioned with it that we're launching our own comms platform in the new year. Trying to avoid shameless self-promotion, but feel free to swing me a message if you wanna swap stories on how bad BC is.
1. Social media platforms (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter)  
2. Design tools (Photoshop, Canva)  
3. Analytics tools (GA, OWOX BI)  
4. Content marketing tools (Hubspot, SEMrush)  
5. Email marketing tools (MailChimp)
Reddit
When I was targeting people in the beauty salon niche. I noticed a lot of people are just buying likes to their page and you can tell because a person with 50,000 likes to their page getting 5-10 likes per post. I wonder if they are actually getting paying customers to their business using social media when the likes were bot traffic or bot likes. I recommended to a beauty salon to create a facebook group and showed them how to use a website to target people in their area that would love their service.  It was like using Facebook Ads without paying for Facebook Ads. They just have to add them as friends and then add them to their group. 
Optimizing opengraph image preview files for blogs and important pages. Just this week I tried to share a job opening at our firm that is being handled by an external recruiter, and the preview image was a lowres version of their logo that I couldn’t overrude. Utter shit. 
[deleted]
Unsplash too!
I use Pexels. Works pretty well for lifestyle imagery. 
I use Pexels too and it's great. Sometimes, I need to source more organic-looking photos that aren't as stylized and airbrushed. For these, I also check Flickr. Sometimes you find little gems with a creative commons license that allows you to use images for free. Another option is to link up with an upcoming photographer and work out an arrangement to use pictures from their portfolio for an economical price. Or, work out an arrangement to have them do scaled-down shoots for you cost-effectively. E.g. One of my clients paid $100 per week for 4 weekly photos that followed very loose creative guidelines that I stipulated. Lastly, don't ignore user generated content, or curating photos from other creators on social media that align with your style. So long as you give attribution and/or ask for permission, this is totally Ok. Good luck!
It honestly depends on what you do. Marketing is a large, varying field. Where does your experience lie, and what is your goal?

I have a preference for customers who are in the entertainment industry who I can set up an automated workflow for. So I focus on companies on IG who have weak ads, judge which ones that I believe have budget and are compatible with my strengths, and meet them in person. 

A lot of people just don’t have access to people who actually know what they are doing in advertising and are dying for someone who can get them a return on their advertising dollar. Since this is a conversation I’ve had a thousand times I know how to sell through that angle. 
Start Locally, find a local business in need of a major social media upgrade, create an objective list of everything that needs done, and request a meeting with your local business. Let them know who you are, what you do, and how you can improve their overall social presence organically and through digital marketing. Ask them for their goals... do they want to increase business? Do they want more followers? Do they want more site visitors? ... Then create the roadmap and let them know what you charge for your services. Start them on a monthly retainer and layout the monthly goals and objectives. If you get them moving in the right direction, take note in how much they increase and use that to your advantage on finding your next paying client.
Cold email. Or cold call. If this is your first client, I hope you have cash socked away.  Or a second job.  


IMHO it's all about professional experience. I've had many marketing grads work under me and the only use I've seen them make of their degrees was that they learned how to use powerpoint, photoshop and other programs to make presentations in college which helped them a bit. I've worked my way up in the business with no bachelor's, but imagine doing as I did would be more difficult if you were starting out today because digital marketing is a more mature marketplace now than it was ten years ago.
Depends. On the junior levels, nah. That's mostly leg work which anybody can learn; SEO, PPC and SEM.

On more strategic roles though, traditional marketing knowledge is required. Someone with a degree wont have to learn it while someone without it will spend some time learning basic concepts.
Yes. Digital marketing is still an arm of the overall concept of marketing. A lot of digital marketing concepts came from "traditional" marketing. What's good about digital marketing is it is now highly measurable. 

&#x200B;

From my experience, i noticed that a lot of marketers we're indifferent when it came to numbers as before creativity, PR and execution were the only ones really necessary. When it comes to digital marketing, numbers and analytics play a very very huge role.

&#x200B;

However, being good in numbers and analytics isn't enough to make you a successful digital marketer as marketing isn't really pure logic. A lot of digital marketing questions are still arbitrary --- like how "targeted is targeted" in creating an audience, what's the importance of frequency aside from it's literal meaning.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Background: agency owner at a martech firm with >$3M ann rev. College dropout. :)

Quick Answer: No. The question isn't universally answerable. So, my personal opinion is that it depends on many individual attributes, strengths, and character qualities. 

Hunger, Hustle, Humility. 

Those are the three trite little buzzwords that I try to box people up in who I'd like to work with. 

Notice that there's no "Marketing Degree" in there? Ok, here's an opportunity to offend a bunch of people - but recall college. Who was majoring in Marketing? It was mostly the people who sort of sucked at math right? Marketing major - that's typically the easiest business focus degree. I know that it's not true in all cases. I know that marketing degrees and their subsequent value vary wildly depending on the institution. (enough disclaimers?)

But, no - I don't actively search them out, because. 
** their professors are completely incapable of keeping up with the latest digital marketing trends. They are usually learning 10 yo generalities. 
** the current marketing environment has a severe distaste for anything 10yo. It's gotta be fresh. 
** they instead teach theory and general strategy - and confuse the shit out of advertising and marketing semantics. 

Instead I look for Econ, Stats, Finance, CS majors. Marketing requires an understanding of finance - if you're going to be a high paid marketer, you need to justify your worth as a revenue generator, not a cost overhead. 

Marketing (specially digital) requires an intense attention to detail. It's a technical field now. I don't understand why more people don't get this. Marketing departments are usually spending more on software and infrastructure than the f'ng IT dept these days. 

The other degrees I've had success employing are on the oposite spectrum; english, political science, graphics design, and other liberal arts genre degrees. These people are usually a little more on the "dreamer quadrant" but once they graduate, some of them get fully engulfed in a hustle mode and end up using that creativity in amazing marketing ways. They're great with strategy. They're great with customers. But, they're smart enough to quickly assimilate the martech. These people are going to be the future CMOs. I love them.

Now here's where it gets weird. I like drop outs. 

Drop outs, that have somehow found success and traction in marketing -  have hustle. They are usually also humble. They have a chip on their shoulder. They know they have to work harder and put in an unusual amount of effort to EARN their success compared to their college colleagues. 

I am finding that more and more college graduates come with a feeling of entitlement. Ok, please for fucks sake just hear me out on this. It's not a rule - it's a gross generalization. I get that. But, it's not your typical millenial bs complaint. 

What I mean is that it seems like college conditions people to want super clear micro instruction..... just like a course syllabus. What's the extra credit? Do I get in trouble if I miss too many classes? How many words does the essay have to be?  They want to know if I do X Y Z then I will get a raise of B. 

But, start-ups and agencies aren't like that. The enterprises we work with aren't either. Maybe the government is? Big4 consulting is.... for sure. 

But, I SO value people who generate their own success. I love fresh ideas. I love people who not only have good ideas, but actually GET SHIT DONE. I promote generously. In the last three years I've given out 3 50% raises. I've also opened up profit sharing for certain high value folks that I want to keep on the team. But, I'm not going to give people the ikea instructions on how to get there. 

Instead, top performers bring creativity, ideas, and most importantly a sense of responsibility and activated sense of DOING into the organization. 

Otherwise - I'm just delegating shit right? Instead, the people who really make a positive impact are ADDING to the ideas and execution of the organization. 

I feel like college is doing a disservice by stripping that away from a lot of people. I believe that is because of the rise of academic bueracracy and the increasing prevalance of life long / career silo'd academics who are disconnected from the speed and culture of current marketplace innovation.  

Thats just a current theory of mine. 

Basically - you don't need a degree to succeed in marketing. You will have to pay your dues some other way.... What you need to show, whether you have a degree in Fine Art, Econ, CS, or a f*(#* GED - is that you are smart, and GET SHIT DONE. 

Like everyone here, we'll agree there's nothing better than experience. So, you're prob going to have to work for peanuts out of the gate, but take advantage of the situation. Learn EVERY piece of ad/martech that they have inhouse. Download all the manuals. Study cram for the tests..... get certified. Never eat lunch alone. Network your ass off. Be helpful in everything you do. Your job is to make your boss look good.... don't inflate with pride and demand a raise three months into it. Lock in a promotion in your first gig - transition into a junior role at a consulting firm where you'll learn from extremely experienced consultant peers at a break neck pace on dozens of clients simultaneously.... there's no better way to gain experience than that.

Then - get promoted at the consultancy, then take your pick from the clients.... you'll have a front row view into their org, and will likely hit that director level 5-6 years before your marketing major in house team peers. 

/.02


A marketing degree isn't a pre-requisite to succeeding in digital marketing. But it also doesn't guarantee success. Some of the best people I know in the space didn't have a marketing background to start with. 
I did a degree in marketing (Bcomm) and have now worked in the digital marketing field for 5+ years. I would say the degree was useful for better understanding business in general, this is key in any role, especially marketing. However, almost none of what I do from a technical skill set perspective was learn't during my degree. So while I think a degree can be helpful, I don't think it is required, you could start learning digital marketing without and there are tons of free online resources to help with this! 
I think the bigger indicator is mathematical/analytical ability. I’d much rather hire a finance major with no digital experience than a marketing major who has never had to interpret 100,000 lines of funnel data. 
I believe that it depends on how open to learn is the person. If it is a professional with experience, he or she already know the importance and shift of the new paradigm for marketing for this era. I am in the middle, being stuck with traditional knowledge but open to learn and gain new experience from the new digital era. Change is hard, but it is part of human evolution. Or either you grow, or perish with your old ways and ideas.
Digital marketing involves many things. It is just an applied form of regular marketing. Of course you have to know the basics of digital advertising, but you have to know how to build marketing strategies. For which, marketing experience is required. 
I don’t think someone with a degree in traditional marketing is qualified to work in marketing...
Your comment is vague. We don't know how good you are at social media. 

It depends on what you want to be good at too. 

Knowing who you are targeting is far more important. 

Digital marketing is like a car. Windshield breaks go to windshield guy. New tires, tires guy. 

I don't mean to be crass. 

Read Russell Brunson's book. It's free. Start with the foundation first. 
I agree, I would start with AdWords certification and google analytics certifications because they are free. Hubspot has a free inbound marketing course/certification I plan to take as well even though I use Marketo and am not a novice by any means. I understand your company is allowing you to spend a certain amount on continuing education, but perhaps they’d allow you to put it towards a digital marketing tradeshow instead if you are able to get several free certifications. 
If you want to go for a paid course that covers most of the essential techniques of digital marketing, I recommend Lynda Online Marketing course and Udemy Complete Digital Marketing Course. 

The Udemy course is more thorough though, and longer.

Good Luck
Echoing your question as my company offers 1k a year for continued learning in any direction so long as it’s somewhat relevant. I’ll be curious to see what others recommend.

In the mean time, how about analytics / AdWords certifications if you haven’t already? I deal with clients all the time that are very relieved to know they’re working with someone with these certifications even though they’re basically a standardized requirement in our industry and  relatively easy to understand (lots to master) with a little work.
Search engine land is great for SEO/SEM content 
I like Search Engine Journal though I experienced some low-quality paid posts last weeks. Anyone else with the same thoughts?

Also check the Mangools blog, there's plenty of SEO and digital marketing tricks & tips, inlcuding SEO guides for beginners. 

When it comes to others, I like Ahrefs, Kissmetrics and some articles by Moz.
Well outside of my own (http://todayonsocial.com), I love Marketing Land (which is a part of SEJ mentioned below), I also get a lot from The Verge and TechCrunch. 
Depends what you wanna read about! I like MarTech Advisor for industry news etc. But I read Lunametrics for Analytics stuff. WeSM are a good all rounder and I generally find myself flicking through AdWeek because creative ads are easy to digest ;)
Chief Martec and Digital Doughnut come to mind... and for some weekly comic relief, I do like Marketoonist.
Big fan of SearchEngineLand
[removed]
How do I go about getting this certification? 
Do you have to pay?
Well done! Now to learn the things the certification doesn't teach you!
How many hours did it take you to complete it?
AdWords certification is a nice to have, but a test doesn't accurately showcase your AdWord skills. 

I have both the AdWords and Analytics (nice to have for resumes) but no employer ever cared that I had it. It was the execution, ideas, and results that matter.
Hahahaha You’re ABSOLUTELY ready for the world!
I have both Analytics and Adwords certificate, get in the queue junior.
Maybe share some of your favorite tips and things you learned.
Fundamentals, AdWords, Analytics, Shopping, Tag Manager. I have em all. All you have to do is show clients you can actually increase their sales (based on proof / previous success) and you will earn business regardless of certifications. 
Besides pageviews and link clicks, what are some unique conversions you think we should all be tracking?
I got a bartender Cert.!! X-P!!
But do you have Bing? Supposedly 10% of searches are there. (I have Bing)
Where do you live? Do you want a job?
there are some awesome free Slack Channels that do this. 

Look up Online Geniuses or Measure - both awesome slack channels i'm apart of that do exactly that for oyu. 
Masters student here - I'd be interested in this.
I would. I would like a somewhat smaller group. Most of the slack channels are too big, I feel.
Yes! Please hook me up. :)
[removed]
Yes, please! 
the customer journey ends in death.

priceless.
Love it haha
Yes, it's very good for beginners​, it covers almost every thing about the digital marketing, i have the certificate, it's good for the cv, even if we you are not a beginner, after that the hubspot inbound course certificate, is really good, you will learn hows digital marketing should be really done
Google Digital Garage (Digital Unlocked) is an excellent resource to learn almost every basic in digital marketing. Right from the need of going digital to use of all integrated components like SEO, SMM, PPC, and content, etc. all things are covered in this course. After final exam, you can receive a certificate.
Apart from that, you can use Primer App for learning digital marketing.
Hubspot is another source where you can learn the practical ways to promote the business through integrated digital marketing primarily inbound techniques.
Later on, you can learn, practice and use other advanced marketing strategies.
Only if you are getting paid for it.
It depends on your contract. Clients always request services that are outside the agency's scope of work and that they aren't paying for and that should never be the case because it'll never end.

I personally prefer that the agency create all the content since they will know what kind of visuals/copy will best fit the strategy while the client won't always know. The wrong content can be counterproductive and usually leads to the client getting pissed that they're not getting the results they want.
I’ve had to train clients. No vertical video, focus, etc. i ask them to take “too many” and usually get 1-3 that work.
I’ve worked at 2 different agencies and neither offered photography/videography services. Does your agency only work with local businesses? In my experience, almost all of my clients were located far enough away that this wouldn’t be feasible.
I offer it for my clients that are in real estate or BNBs. I find if they have the option to do everything in one place, they’ll go that route. The less links in the chain, the better (for the client).
I mean actual business pictures has immense impact on sales as it entails the element of social proof
I take photos and video as part of my services, the cost gets factored into the overall price.  It was frustrating for both me and my clients trying to get them to take acceptable photos / video as most have nothing more than their cell phone and don't understand proper lighting techniques.
I would say matters how good of photos you need and want for the strategy. If your really trying to be successful and want high quality photos and certain things captured in the photos than yes I would be taking my own.
What does the contract say?
Not so much may or may not be according to requirements
This is typically an upsell. Last agency I worked with had a X fee per creative built into their contract
Chuck contract, chuck every industry practice out of window. Client chose the DMA with a belief that you will deliver value. You chose your client with a belief that you can deliver value.

Clients will be lethargic and dodgy when you want them to do some work. But remember, pictures are important in branding and making that first impression. It makes the targeted customer take a closer look. Good picture helps you gain split second leverage when the ads is live. When the campaign is successful you retain a customer. 

Clients may provide great pictures. If that’s not the case, it’s DMA’s duty to CONVINCE how important the picture is to run a successful campaign and how it can impact the Ad ROI. Pictures can make or break a campaign. Convey this in the discussion stage and ask the client to provide best pictures. 

Mostly clients would hate to go through the struggle of finding a good photographer and all the process. If they are up for the game you got what you need. 

If not, DMA can have a list of partner photographers. It’s a win win. Photographer gets more gig from DMA and DMA can demand some discount so that they can show value to the Client.

Second way is, the DMA can hookup photographer and client. In return for reference and value, DMA can use the photographer on other projects.

Third way is to hire an in house photographer if you have such high demand. 

In my opinion, it’s better if DMA controls the photography needs of the client’s campaign. It would be a shame to watch bad photo from a client break DMA’s advertising effort.
I would do data science or analytics at the very least. You can get into digital marketing but data science and analytics are very sought after positions, and future machine learning (5-10 years) will replace a lot of the data entry type jobs like digital media buyers, and other entry level digital marketing jobs. Stay ahead of the trends, my friend.
I’ve worked with a couple kids who have digital marketing degrees. I’d rather hire a jr employee with an English degree or no degree at all because at least that kid won’t think he knows stuff.
I wouldn’t recommend it. I wish I hadn’t gotten a degree in this field because I’ve had to do continuing education. If you do then I would go for traditional marketing or something technology related.
I'm a digital marketer ( my degree is in Communication ) but I didn't receive any digital marketing training until after school. I found an entry level job at a Facebook marketing agency via Upwork. The training I got there was faster, cheaper, and way more comprehensive than I would've gotten in school. Plus I was working with tons of real clients every day.

&#x200B;

I now run a marketing department for a multi-million dollar company but both my FB ads experience AND my degree got me in the door (plus a ton of hard work and self-teaching—Udemy has been a great resource). I wish I had spent more of my time in classes related to data and analytics. They are critical for any marketing role these days so I'd seriously recommend sharpening those skills! They'll take you far.
I did a comms degree (majoring in journalism) and that seems to benefit me more than a straight marketing degree. I did a bunch of marketing subjects, but I also know how to write - that’s a tougher skill to be able to glean from a job interview, but a journalism degree? They know I can write well.

Depends on the type of job you’re going for, but a whole marketing degree doesn’t sound flexible enough, and keep in mind that what you’re taught in a digital marketing subject WILL be slightly behind the times. When you finish your degree, the game will have changed. 

Short courses could be another option.
A marketing degree will teach you concepts. As a Kinesiology major in marketing, does it matter? I
Think you could get beyond that. One of my good friends in my company is one of the smartest people I know and had NO degree. It's the time and effort he's put in on the side and during the jobs he's landed.
Degrees can open the door, but aren't totally necessary. 

If you can demonstrate knowledge, you'll be fine but it does take a lot of effort
Getting a degree in graphic design or videography may be more beneficial.
On top of my head, Schedule Webinars. They work like magic in education sector.

Also, get the website optimized. One of the Reasons why it's failing is this. Will you trust an education course of 850£ with shitty website? 

Btw, £100k budget sounds so dope to spend across multiple platforms. I hope i reach that level soon. 

Mind how long have you been in DM?
Create a new landing page and run ads there. 
MailChimp if you don't know development, html/CSS grid if you want to create something that will stand the test of time (backlink).
Also, you need to be aware that Facebook will increase the cost after a period of time whereas Google ads will reduce it. 

Hope it helps
The UI/UX of a website is vital for submitting a lead form. It needs to be as easy as possible, with the least amount of work for the potential new client. I use HotJar to track our visitors behavior on the site, and this helps us with tinkering certain things to make the person's "wants/needs" easily available. If people are having to click 7 times to submit an application or what not, you will 100% turn potential clients away. Little tweaks like this could do wonders for your lead gen.
Looks like a lot of comments here already gave you some great ideas. But let's give you 3 from my point of view.

1. Creating a simple landing page is way more effective than having a shitty one. Especially if customers journey is a mess. 
2. Webinars are not only great for new leads but also for adding a bonus for already existing customers, which can lead to more leads if done with point 3.
3. Email marketing: Create a coupon for referrals - with already existing leads. (example: refer your friend - get $50 Amazon coupon)

Good luck!
7 clicks!?

Sell them some on site-optimization, and explain to them why it's badly needed.
Sounds like a project you shouldn’t have bother taking and possibly didn’t qualify enough for yourself.

I’d walk away tbh. 

Not worth the headaches.

Either that or you need to revisit the discussion based on the scope of the work, what you’ve uncovered, and what needs to be done to make it work for them. 

And this is where you are crystal clear moving forward along with upwelling them on any additional services you’d need to implement.

Bottom line - cut your losses and walk away. 

From the sound of it, they’re in control because you’re allowing the client to communicate anyway they want towards you...

And they clearly don’t understand their own issues or what makes sense in order to achieve results they want.

If they have a crap site and no traffic, you’re spinning wheels.

If they aren’t working on generating organic traffic or just thinking you have some magical solution, you’re spinning wheels.

The money is not worth the headache, your time, your extra effort, your personal name and reputation.

They clearly don’t get you, the communication isn’t on the same page, and they’re pulling you all over the place. 

Just my opinion.

I wouldn’t have even agreed to this job and would’ve qualified further before hand. 

I’d walk away and say thank you for the opportunity, but we are not the right fit. 

—
Mike
How many of those original leads converted? 

For the short term, retarget the ads and copy to start getting leads in again.

You should always A/B test to see which ads run best and which will be the control. 

Maybe targeting is off? Get more specific in the demographic, age range, location etc... 

Could be the copy...

Could be the offer... 

Run it against the current ads and see if traffic increases. 

—
Mike
Perpetual traffic by Digital marketer, particularly episodes with Ezra and Molly. Then just trial and error.
Experiment and learn from experience. That's the only way to learn. 

Good luck!
Word stream.com
In addition to what everyone's mentioned, try not to make your audiences too granular. Lump like audiences together so FB's algorithm has more data to work off of.
You will learn from your own experience. And your question is incomplete no one can tell you about your ads budget. Beacuse you have not provided the enough details of your Facebook ads.
cool
Look into Interest & Instagram for that. I believe instagram has a lot of compilation accounts that could feature you for less than a hundred dollars and as far as pinterest goes  I am not really sure but it's definitely the right platform.
 Search engineer... That's a new one. I like it.

I'd say look to social as well. People aren't necessarily searching for your gallery or the artists involved but there's a ton of opportunity for those that haven't yet discovered the artists but end up loving their work.
Does the gallery have a social presence yet? If not, I'll start with that first to bring in some organic traffic. Facebook, Instagram and maybe Pinterest. You can work you way into paid search and social. Content marketing is something I would focus on.
Well, start with blog to bring some organic traffic from Google.
Continuous SEO , Social Media Marketing ( facebook , instagram ). You can use paid promotion option on social media . It is affordable and best to gain more followers .
What is facebook?
Paid social questions about targeting, ad group setup, etc.  Are you certified in FB Blueprint.  Organic social is largely useless for brand and revenue objectives. 
They might ask you to show them your personal social media accounts. Make sure to delete every negative post! And they might ask you on how you would improve their social media accounts. My first job out of college was a social media manager. It's a fun job but it does suck the life out of you if you don't have good time management. Good luck!
Examples of how you have led a team, and how you will generate leads/revenue 
Benchmark KPIs
Give me an example of a recent conflict you faced and how you resolved it...


What is an area you wish to work on?


I’ve recruited for a Social Media Manager role in my team recently and the things that the successful candidate demonstrated were:
- he had clearly spent a lot of time looking at our existing channels, understanding their purpose and the content that they promoted
- he was ready to challenge us on what we were currently doing on social media
- he demonstrated that he knew that constant testing and learning was crucial
- he brought lots of examples of his previous experience that was relevant to the role.

Do the above and you’ll be in with a chance. Good luck.
They’ll ask you 1) thoughts on company’s  current social media strategy, what’s good and bad about it and 2) fave social media profiles for each channel. Have examples to back up choices.
Definately if will not be....what is this that...
It will be basically regarding the social media strategy, social media calendar, KPIs, campaigns, paid ads etc. 
Thank you for the insight!

Tell Me about Yourself or some variation. 
If you have to ask I question whether you’re qualified to do it
Hey Kaizen.

Typically get a proper branding done, that counts a dark and light logo-kit and some color research that stays prominent on everything (website, business cards, mugs, flyers, etc).

Once you are done with the same, do some phrase researches and stick to a prominent phrase while describing the business on any sort of copywriting online/offline.

Now, get started with the account creation on social channels and designing the website (if not already done). Try to keep the website clean, and mobile-friendly, and speedy, plus easy-to-go content that answers the customer side. Also put some opt-ins to generate sleeping leads.

Regarding pricing, since the person you'll be doing the marketing is your friend, ask them if they can offer you their service/product for a cheaper price. If they say yes, quote a cheaper quo. Other wise stick to the industry standard pricing.

I know it has been a vague answer. I am struggling with my karma. So yeah. :P

Hope it helps! Would be glad to answer you further.

Cheers. 
Hi!  


I am also planning a startup and currently working on it i can share the things i have been trying to do to escalate and market the business.   


Social Media Platforms are the biggest brand creators now a days so i would suggest campaigns over there.  


Second brand awareness in related communities this takes alot of time but helps you alot in turn.  


&#x200B;
Brands have a great deal to do with what people believe. People are attracted to those with the same beliefs. If your client was a person, what would they believe? What are their values? What they do is merely a function of how they express their beliefs.

"the most efficient way to spend my time at this point." 

Draft a statement of work that clearly defines each deliverable, with a payment triggers for each. If not, an easier way would be to define your hourly rate and approximate the hours per deliverable. He may be your friend, but unless he's paying you a salary, set clear expectations. 

Statements of Work are referred to in services agreements, which dictate payment, severability, liability, etc. You might not think this is necessary, but maybe you want to be ready for the next opportunity that isn't your friend. Very good to do if you are a contractor instead of a Corporation. A corp protects you from damages. (eg they go out of business, sunk their investors money, etc.)

Statements of work contents..

 *  Business background
 *  Goals
 *  Discovery
 *  Planning
 *  Logo
 *  Web design
 *  SEO
 *  Email marketing
 *  Landing pages
 *  Ads
 *  Social
 *  Content creation
 *  Etc...

There are likely to be subsections that include vendor selection, negotiation etc.

 *  Assumptions. These are very important. If there are any dependencies - this is where they go. If you need him to pay his IT person to work with you, or if you need payments to be current so you can pay subcontractors, that he will provide calendar availability for feedback.
 *  Payment. If you've done this before, charge by the deliverable. It's a lot safer to bill by the hour, but don't expect to learn on their dime.
 *  Recurring charges. A retainer is a good way to keep a minimum amount of hours available only to them so you do not take on other commitments that would preclude you from servicing their account. Good for both parties.

PM if you want something more formal. I know I'm leaving details out because it's Friday and I'm on my cell!

  


  


  

Must 
Start with a brand kit. Everything else comes from that.
My advice would be not to charge, do the favour and get out. For marketing to work you need to really understand your audience, sounds like he's a little unsure of what he's doing so it will never trickle down. 
Pick a simple, out of the box bones solution for the site. 

If this is an ecomm startup, Shopify is a great solution with a fair amount of customizability and a ton of free apps that integrate extremely well with both Google Ads and Paid Social. 

Make sure you're optimizing both site side and paid side. You can have the best click through, targeting, and creative in the world, but if the site experience is completely awful, site side conversion rate will drown you. 

Finally, a bit in the weeds, but MOTION MOTION MOTION for creative. It may seem daunting depending on your skills, but even a basic gif with early quick cuts will outperform a static most of the time and pretty much guarantee a lower CPM.

Don't be afraid to invest to test, monitor updates closely, and good luck!
[removed]
Do this, forget about the bid amount set it to maximize clicks don't set any bid amount, at least run it 2 days after that pause the ad and review your ad with search terms, after this you can find out what's your negative keywords and best keywords that you can get maximum clicks  then adjust the bid amount with respective of that.
Check the estimated first page bid. The CPC may just be too low to compete in the auction. Do a test and set the CPC to $10 and see what you get, as that will give you the data.
If the bid is not enough, it should be showing a message. How did you set the ad campaign, ad group, keyword for that ad?
I also asked this question on the Google Ads user forum and someone there suggested that my $10/day budget is too small.  Thoughts on that?  What do you think is the minimum daily budget to be competitive enough to get your ads seen?

I really need to either solve this or know for sure if I should drop it and move my March campaign back to Facebook.  (I know they're not the same kinds of advertising platforms.  I hoped to do both, actually.)
Have you tried freelance websites like Fiverr and UpWork? Easy way to build up a portfolio.

IMO cold mailing for SEO services goes straight into the junk folder and deleted. I wouldn't bother unless you heavily personalise your proposals towards local businesses.

You want to get into local SEO but not approach local businesses because they don't have a web presence? Sounds like you've found a niche, offer a website + SEO package!

Also worth creating a simple web page and rank for local SEO terms. e.g

\*City\* SEO service

\*City\* SEO expert

\*City\* SEO agency

I'm always surprised at SEO agencies / experts that offer SEO services but fail to optimise their own websites!
Definitely start locally, but if you want to keep trying cold emails, try Facebook instead. Many companies have a Facebook page where you can message them and I've gotten a much better response rate. Not that it's a good response rate, but it's 10x better than email
Get the Fletcher Method course and work through it
I definitely wouldn’t start with cold emails, and agree starting locally and showing a business how you can help would be a great start.
It seems funnier when an SEO expert struggles to find leads. If you cant find yourself leads or clients how are you gonna give leads to your clients ??
Funny though learning never ends.

First you have to identify how good you are at SEO. it's like telling people you can make them rich while you can't make yourself rich.

Few things I'll like you to understand as an seo expert are the following (I'll share a post on them later on but check yourself).

1. Do you understand what a code is?
2. Do you know what programming languages are and how they are used?
3. Do you know how code powers our daily lives?
4. Do you understand basic machine learning?
5. Do you know the difference between SEO and SEM and how they work?
6. Do you know how to conduct analysis of the SEO or SEM?
7. Do you know how website works?
8. Do you know how say google search for information online and the ranking order?

If your answers to the above questions are in the affirmative then thumbs up all you need is to create content (which I'll also make available, how to create best contents).

Besides some of the freelance networks like upwork, try AngelList which has tons of start-ups looking for freelance/contractors. Even ones looking for part time works, you can pitch them your services in the platform. 

But as a marketer and you want clients, you should have your own website too. Where you have about you, your services, and write blog content that shows your knowledge and so people find you. Additionally, if you have some budget, try paid ads of your services. 

Cold emailing out of the blue is not going to work well, nor will you be trusted. There is a lot you can be doing to be seen, just cold emailing and hoping for work is not going to cut it. 
Everybody does 
I see this question come up often here. 

You might be able to get some sort of low end freelance gigs but you do need a degree ( though Not necessarily in marketing). You will make way more money in the long run with that diploma. 

Look, you have no idea yet if you really want to pursue a marketing career yet. But not having a degree limits you SO much. Plus college teaches you important shit like how to build your network and communication skills. What do you think a big client is going to think when your campaign reports are full of shitty misspellings? Do you think clients will even hire someone who can’t write persuasively?
Yeah college is useless
No. All you need are the skills and a foot in the door. 

Perhaps start with an internship that would kill two birds one stone 
dont go to college, it is unrelated. get an internship in dm ...now.
There are a lot of online possibilities, I’d say any will be better solution that college. Quality blogs, Udemy courses, YouTube courses. Just get the basics and try to find some internship.
Lynda.com. Go to your local library and get a card, then take Lynda courses for free. Then get on Upwork. Land some freelances gigs to build a resume. Leverage those to get bigger work. Build resume. Get job for agency or launch a company.

Don’t waste money on college
I would not be where I am today if I didn’t have a degree. Even though I had to teach myself everything I know about digital marketing, you still need the degree to get your foot in the door. 

My advice is do both. Get a marketing degree, and teach yourself the technical digital marketing skills on your own. 

Take advantage of free google training and other digital marketing certifications too. 
Depends on how much you want to be earning in 10-20 years. Can you find an entry-level job without a degree? Yes (though it'll be harder). Can you earn $100k+ in 10 years without a degree? Almost certainly not. Can you earn $200k+ in 20 year? No. 
In the marketing industry, a degree is most likely needed. Degree gives you a huge upper hand in employment, showing your value, and you learn a lot of skills in college with that. When starting your own biz, you can use your degree as a “selling point” saying  you have a degree and know what your talking about. Gives your clients social proof you have experience. 
It depends. I don’t think there is a clear cut answer. I went to school for web design and I did freelance for a number of years. I am a digital PM and my degree only helped because I was able to spin it in a way that allows me to speak about design in addition to the skills that you can learn without the degree.

It also depends the job you are going for. Many jobs have degree on the qualifications....so having one probably gets you and interview or maybe a good in the door. I know plenty people in the industry without one.

Depends.
This question comes up a lot, especially in threads.

I do not have a degree in marketing or digital marketing. I went to college for graphic design and also have a minor in communications. But, that degree got me my first job in email marketing. Now 8 years later, I'm the head of marketing for a software company. 

While College may have cost me money and I did not go into my field of study,  I learned a lot that applied to my career and networking.

However, there are alternatives. There are 9-month schools for specific degrees in specialized areas of marketing. There are places like General Assembly where you can learn and still have something to show. On top of that, take free online certifications like Google AdWords and Analytics. Takes HubSpot's inbound marketing courses, listen to podcasts, start a blog and test out what you learn, etc. All that can be helpful in learning and getting your foot in the door.

If it were me starting over again, I'd do a specialized marketing degree in like a 6-9 month (cheaper than a 4 year degree) and do all the free online certifications I could. Then take some internships or even freelance entry level marketing gigs. 
Degrees are not required, but they do open doors. Anecdotally, the agency I work at openly says degrees are not required and will often talk about how experience and passion is all that matters... but everyone that works here *does* have a degree in something, lol.

As other comments mention too, it depends how far you want to go as well and how technical of a position you want.

Safe (but mostly useless) degrees would be Business, Communications.

Relevant would be Marketing, Comp Sci.

Technical (data architecture, marketing technology, full stack dev) would be Math/Stats, Comp Sci, Computer Engineering, Data Science.

There's a few people that went through "boot camps" here too, either for web dev or digital marketing. I think those definitely help you land a job, but is it worth the money? Hard to say. You could build a similar portfolio for a lot less with something like Lynda.
Jesus Christ. Here's a quote I read once 
'most people who tell you to follow your dreams haven't achieved theirs yet.' 

People telling you to go college don't know what it's like as a dropout, and vice versa. College is the safe route. Dropping out is a risky route. If you want to actually heed the advice of someone, I rather it be from someone who was in college and then dropped out, not people who 'think' you won't get a job or it's very hard. 

As such, I won't give you advice on dropping out but I'll give you advice on who's advice to take. 
In a nutshell:  


You have **traffic**. Either it's paid or it isn't. 

You have a **landing page.** 

You have a **funnel.** This is the route you want your visitors to go down.  
It might involve a series of emails, or blog posts which ultimately lead to ...

  
...**The offer** AKA what you are selling.   


Master your traffic your landing pages your funnels and your offers and you'll be well on your way.
SEO, Search Engine Marketing, Paid Advertising, Email Marketing, and Social Media Marketing. There’s subsets to these and additional skills needed. 
Digital marketing have to segment i.e Inbound Marketing and outbound marketing. Inbound marketing have different segment like SEO, SMO, Content Marketing, Email Marketing, PPC, Paid Marketing,  and etc. 

Outbound marketing have different segment like Email Marketing, Cold Calling, Printing Advertising, Television Advertising and etc. 
I have been in Digital Marketing since 2014, i guess. 

I enjoy working in this field which results me in less stress & a happy working life. There is no need to change your career & you stated that you enjoy digital marketing. 

**Personal Aspects:**

For me, the best work is which we enjoy doing & if you have made this as your career then you are one of the most happiest person of the world. 

Trust me, I am not lying. 

I have seen many people who are earning millions in different fields but living a very stressful & unhappy life. Reason is they have 'Work Load'.

But in you case you will never have 'Work load' as you will enjoy doing that. 

**Salary:** 

It varies places to place & company to company. Digital Marketing as a career is very broad. It  got may leaves like:

* Search Engine Optimization
* Social Media Optimization
* Online Reputation Management
* Email Marketing
* Paid Marketing
* Content Marketing
* Influencer Marketing

And salary varies expertise to expertise. I would suggest here to master in all the above & keep polishing yourself. At the end of the day you will get your desired salary or more than that. 

&#x200B;

**Exposure:**

You will get more chance for exposure & you work would be more in online and/or social world & we all know that everyone is using social media & google (for search) nowadays. So you would be always able to explain them the mechanism of this online world. 

&#x200B;

Hope my answer would be helpful for you to make a great decision. 

&#x200B;
I work as a digital marketing manager, and my background is web designing, and trust me....this field is the future, digital media is on fire...

You can check my profile bio
Good Future for You. Guaranteed 
As someone who's in a dm course rn, what came up to me was the heavy use of excel and reports. Downloading loads of data in cvs fr fb, google analytics, and other softwares, number crunching them to calcuate engagemenr rate, cpc, and the like, comparing to previously on thr same platform or against other platforms. 

It really depends which field of digital marketing - content writing/marketing, performance marketing or social media marketing and others. 
Been in digit marketing / e-commerce for 8 years now. I can't imagine doing anything different. 

I've always wanted to work on products and campaigns that outside people would see and notice and I definitely get that with digital marketing. 

Additionally, it's just fun. I don't think there's any other industry that allows you to hypothesize, create, deploy, and evaluate so quickly. Validation is one of my keys to happiness. 
Digital Marketing job is tough, and stressful because you might be end up dealing with a number of clients on daily basis. If your agency is big, i.e. Branex, allocated resources better then you might not have much pressure. but if you're in small agency, then you might have trouble as you will be having very limited resources.
Bro, i think tye sooner the better for u... find where you are most confortable with and build your skills from there. Start by geting results for yourself and for other you can start with (even for free) Nd build your portfolio. 
Digital Marketing is all about experience and results.
Digital marketing isn't just a single thing, there are many branches of digital marketing. Those are SEO, social media marketing, email marketing, online advertising, and so on. So, you should know about all these things prior to changing your career to digital marketing.
Depends the country you are in. For example, Full stack marketing is always in demand but it is also very demanding because you need to be both creative and technical. 

PPC and SEO is in demand but i thing content creation will be crucial for the years to come. 

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
I am trying to get into DM without a  degree and a blue collar background. Taking some courses now at age 31. What are my odds landing a job? 

I’m open to criticism and recommendations. 

Thanks 
I'm 33 and have been doing this since I was about 26. The people are generally pretty young, office culture is generally cool, and the work is varied. Lots of growth potential and many different areas you can lean into. I also really enjoyed drinking profusely and hooking up with girls at all the ad industry parties when I first started working in agencies. There's something to be said for the social opportunities your job provides.

&#x200B;

I've also managed to be promoted many times and make a six figure salary without too much effort. I never work late at my current client-side job, and rarely did when I worked in agencies. My stress level is about zero. Not sure if that's because I'm very smart or other people are very dumb, maybe a little of both :)
I have been working in digital marketing since 2018, 1+ year, and I should say that I love what I am doing. Digital marketing is so versatile, it will never make you bored since you can easily change the activity: SEO, Content Marketing, SMM, E-mail Marketing, etc. The job is full of creativity and interesting things. 
I work in digital marketing and it is by far the best profession I have been in. The exposure to the online world is immense. 
I spend my day collaborating with international businesses and running FB ads
You can work as a freelancer as well on the side to generate passive income.
It's an amazing trade.
Currently I am trying to leverage all I have learnt and enter the growth hacking profession!!
I would run 🏃 🏃‍♀️ away from a dm degree. I would rather get a marketing degree. 
Teaching yourself anything for free is possible. Focus on your studies but the most valuable things you get are 1) the degree that gets you an interview and 2) the connections and network building
If you are planning to take on your own entrepreneurial venture, the network you build becomes much more valuable than the degree. 
I got the free google ads certificates \[search, video, display, etc\] and then got some international projects. 

That said, people can't understand that digital marketing is marketing with real time data.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Is it a degree or a certificate?
I learnt almost everything I know on the job. Alot of what I learnt during my marketing course in school is good knowledge and sometimes comes in useful. 
Self studying for sure. I joined a start up so I'm not sure how the hiring process for bigger firms are like. I had some prior experience in marketing for school councils and stuff so that was my "work experience" when I applied. 
I do not have a digital marketing or marketing degree. I went to school for graphic design and got a minor in communications. I fell into email marketing by chance, where I learned that area of marketing more in-depth. I mostly learned on my own and by creating a blog, which I could put on my resume. 

From there, I got interested in Google Ads and Analytics. Took the free courses, followed marketing blogs, and then stumbled on HubSpots free certification. Those things allowed me to get in with a marketing agency, which taught me the rest. 

Now four years later, I'm the head of marketing for a startup. 

I think some course like General Assembly can be good to take, or specialized 9 month degrees or whatever. But if you like it and can learn on your own well, you can learn everything you need to know. The difference is you will have to work hard and be creative to get to that next level. 
Interested! Dm me 
Hey, I’m not looking for an official partner but I’m always looking for someone to chat, brainstorm/ bounce ideas off and help each other out. My
Email
Is aj.magicmedia@gmail.com 
Hi feel free to contact me for seo related. we are an agency 
1)Ethically it would take at least 3 month for your site to get in google SERP with targeted keyword that too depends on how competitive is your vertical.
2) marketing strategy is actually based on what your vertical is..
3) blog plays major role in ranking if your vertical is competitive at least content should have more than 1k words..
What is your blog about? 

20 years experience in digital marketing here, have worked with people you’ve (probably) heard of, but only work on projects that seem like they’ll be fun. 
Let me know what you're looking for, maybe we can help each other out.  Have a great day!
I'm interested. Please email me: Lemeshko21@gmail.com 
Dm me or skype me at bhardwajs15
Ypal623@gmail.com - is my email 

Yogesh pal - google it 


Mind to share more details ? My email: cklai626@gmail.com
PowerPoint, contract, phone call.
Proposal + contract, email with access to systems and then pick when we talk each week.
I just throw as much info as i can in a spreadsheet and filter the most important data. I like diving in and not complicating things. Build as you go is a great idea.  
1: Draft (Past records, past working projects, experience and skillset, chemistry to be able to work with the clients - Adapting to various types of environmental challenges).
2: Competitive Advantage (What's is the strength of the company, and how it could help spearhead growth for the clients).
3: Unlimited Post Results Support (Bringing assessment and timely evaluation to the clients on how the entire process are operated to better assist them in attaining their objectives).

For me books are the best resource for deep diving. Two I highly recommend:

Creative strategy and the business of design. 
Made to stick

The first one is not directly about product marketing but it has a lot of overlap. I read it more for learning strategy but it will serve your purpose to. One of the most concise and informative books i've read.

For videos youtube Seth Godin he has some great talks on marketing in the digital age. You can also look into his blogs, books and podcasts. I haven't read "the purple cow" yet but it's on my list and by all accounts one of the best you can read on marketing.


Read anything by Russell Brunson. There are a lot of great boss resources etc but someone who understands the history of Katherine but applies it to the 21st century with actual real world ability and tools, he is the only one. 
isn't product marketing what is generally written about when someone writes about marketing in general?
There are two scenarios that could be happening right now:

1. They are exploiting you by having you perform a higher function without the appropriate pay.
2. They are providing you with an opportunity to demonstrate that you are capable of taking on greater responsibilities and progressing your career. 

If you believe you have the qualifications and experience to take up a senior role at another company, then maybe it's time to move on. If not, then the experience you are getting is a valuable way to progress your career. 
Instead of asking for the raise ask for a 3 to 6 month growth plan that Makes the benchmarks clear and the ending salary clear. "if I do x,y,z successfully (define successfully) my new title and salary will be 70k in August". Get it signed. 
If you are already in the position then you should be getting paid for it, none of this ‘you need to prove yourself’ bullshit. If you can take it higher without risking your job then go for it.
Check salary.com but to me it sounds underpaid. SF is the most expensive city in the country. They should be able to afford you and it sounds like you deliver value. 

Their is no doubt that you should be paid well and something better than you are getting now.  Although, I think your boss has some point

> I need to prove myself in the new role first.

I mean he is taking more work from you which means he is showing some faith in you. He is providing you the opportunity that you need at this stage of your career but. You see, right now you are just another one who is getting promoted. You must try to be the only one.

&#x200B;
How long have you been working in digital marketing, or is this your first gig?
Hey there I just went through this at my
Job. I have a creative field salary guide that shows every single job in our field. I actually just used it to show my boss my desired salary... I’m in the SF Bay Area but my .org is based in a LCOL area but that doesn’t matter ... PM me and I can swing it your way 
Consider asking this question to your boss in the appropriate setting:

“My personal income goal is to be making $100k a year in the next two years, because I want to (buy a house, start a family, build my financial stability, etc.). Would you be able to share some advice on whether you think that’s possible for me, and what you think I could be doing to create that value for the company and nail it?”

I work in an agency environment and if someone asked that, we would co-create a plan!
[deleted]
Your boss is wasting your time, no offense bro but he knows you're worth way more than that. Pulling your chain.
There’s not much you can do. Facebook engagement and reach is just really tiny compared to instagram. The best thing you can do is make videos. they tend to get more reach and can go viral with shares. Educational videos can go really well on FB so its worth a go.

Other than that, try to focus on Instagram where the reach is so so much better. Facebook is around 5% of the audience where insta is 30%. 

Look into the FB blueprint classes and learn how the pixel works. You can see how every dollar you spend brings in revenue for your company and it will make you look good.
Respectfully, I think you're conducting the wrong analysis and having the wrong discussion with your boss. Engagements basically serve to boost ego. You should be looking down the funnel to see how visitors from Facebook and other social medias interact on your website, and purchase your products. From there, you can assess a  deeper strategy on social media platforms.

&#x200B;

In my own experience, engagements outside of link clicks don't add much value to a business. That is the hypothesis you should be testing :)
1200 followers and there is engagement, now that gives you a perfect opportunity to leverage giveaways/competition. Speak to your boss and decide upon a product/book that is sought after by your audience. You can turn your followers into mini-promoters by running a competition. All you have to do is post the giveaway ad with the three golden rules: Like, Share and Tag people on that post. You will definitely see the numbers growing within no-time. 
People are guaranteed to lure into giveaways when they see they are getting something back. Also, don't forget to post the winners on the following post as this will establish trust among your followers and retain them.
Organic is a longer play, don't expect huge results right out of the gate. To determine a good goal for follower growth, you need to create a benchmark based on current performance. What is the monthly follower growth rate for your page? 

A reasonable goal would be to try and increase that monthly follower growth rate by 1.5x in a quarter. You can also use small paid budgets to boost your organic posts to a wider audience.

After organically posting your 6-7 times per week, you could take the top performing post each week and boost it for the next 7 days. This would help you also target the audiences that are most interested in your company/product.

Hope this helps
There are many ways you can increase your Facebook engagement, some of them are listed below:

* Facebook audience loves teaching, entertaining, informing and inspiring them on Facebook. So, make sure you make your audience smile, think and improve their lives in some ways. 
* Remember people mostly browse Facebook from mobile devices. It's been noticed that Facebook users spend just 1.7 seconds to consume one item of a content. So, keep your posts very short.
* Keep things simple with consistent color scheme and easy to identify images.
* Use your photography skills to post images on Facebook.
* Respond to your Facebook fans when they ask questions or comment on your posts.
Where's the business overall marketing plan? Everything you do, including SMM, should be based on a master marketing plan. Is you boss providing you this?
Well you sure are a bright one I’m not sure what this company saw in you sir but you are clueless.You can’t run a Facebook page and they even give you a budget I don’t see good things for this company in the near future I don’t care how you put it.
Good catch


This is one of the areas where AI can help marketers. 


As always, there are other tools in the market that promise to deliver on this front, but you can always improve on them.


I delivered a project on a content marketing tool called compendium. There were some "AI" tools built into the application but they were more like experimental rather than useful. 


Why are you planning to work on this topic? Are you studying AI and want to create a useful project or are you a marketer and trying to solve this problem?
Now a days AI can very helpful. But they don't have the idea comparing to us.

&#x200B;

Here are the five biggest pain point you experience while doing content marketing.

&#x200B;

**1: Not aware of your audience.** 

When you begin content marketing, it’s crucial that you create profiles of your customers. These tell you your customers’ likes and dislikes, habits and patterns, and should guide your team as they create content.

&#x200B;

**2: Not having the proper talent.** 

This can be a important issue for legacy marketing teams that have tried to retrofit people into content marketing jobs. 

&#x200B;

**3: Not getting the content in front of the right audience.** 

This is a question of distribution. You’re surely spending a lot of attempt creating content, but are you spending much time and money pushing the content to the right audience? Target right audience.

&#x200B;

**4: Having gaps in your content.** 

It’s common for companies to not have all the content they need to move prospects along the sales funnel. So make a content that don't have any gap.

&#x200B;

**5: Measuring and adjusting.** 

This doesn’t just apply to content marketing; it applies to all marketing.
[deleted]
How about a feature that can help you create or tweak your content so it can rank for a featured snippet in the search results? 
Sounds like a great idea. I have several websites that I've recently created but I just don't have enough time to write content for all of them frequently. 

Do you have any sample of content that it writes? Would love to hear more updates from your product! Or let me know if you need help with the business/marketing side.
It will notify you on the page you posted messenger if people turned in an application
Some people hate udemy courses. I love them. 

Btw courses are almost always $11. Whenever I see a course I want I just make a new account and gift it to my actual one so I get the introductory rate. 

Udemy's pricing is an asshole sometimes lol
I'm doing it as well. But honestly it seems like the course only teaches you how to follow, not how to lead. Most if it is look at your competitors and duplicate them
What are your goals? Whan do you want to do with the knowledge? Start your own business, grow existing one or find a new job? It actually matters to answer your question
I came to this sub to post a similar question. Interested in a pursuing a career in this industry. It look seems quite interesting, fun, potentially lucrative, and room for growth in the future. 

If not Udemy, is there a specific path anyone might suggest to learn more about a career in digital marketing?
Udemy Courses are good but i personall recommend Digital Marketing Institute in which you can learn offline . I also course from Wamp Institute
Look into Facebook pixels
You can add UTM codes to your FB ads, this way you can see all the info on GA
Well, it looks very similar to GCLID and i can only think that this parameter will later be used for server to server / postback URL tracking. Given the current environment with ITP and cookies, i reckon that we're going to hear about it soon.
Analytics, similarweb etc.
Sounds like you have no data to work with already?
Your basic ROI calculations are fine and there's nothing wrong with making that yourself in excel, if you're planning.

Just be sure to take your keyword CTR, industry average BR, average conversion value and you should more or less be set to plan.

Like everyone else here is saying though, make sure you start analysing your data as soon as you can to make revisions and tweak your model.

Google ads has great analytics, and you can upload costs in GA to give you ROI or ROAS. If you want to take it one step further you could connect it to Data studio and upload all your external data to give you a really robust picture.

Hope that helps!
Google Analytics and specific tools for channels such as google ads for adwords. 
I use Google Analytics with conversions set up, as well as UTM codes on all paid ad links so I can track the ROI. 

You can set up tracking with Facebook Ads Manager as well - I have confirmation pages after a purchase which counts as a completed transaction for conversion ads.

I don’t have one set tool, but instead have specific metrics I pull from each platform to calculate ROAS.
Calculate your ROAS (return on ad spend) for all your paid channels for sure. It gets a little murky when you're tracking organic conversions and returns since you have to include the cost of your time/salary of those working on the project to get a true ROI. But it's worth having a system in place for that so you know where to focus/increase your spend/effort. 
The reality is that "digital marketing" is a loose term in 2018, and that in order to excel, you don't necessarily you need to technical you just need to get results.

&#x200B;

My advice is don't be "that guy" who does a course (legit or not) and thinks they know digital marketing. There are a lot of classes and resources online which are great, but at the end of the day you need a tangible skill that gets results that the average person does not know, nor could the average person learn by simply memorizing or watching a few videos.

&#x200B;

I have my own agency and have interviewed a few people who said they did SEO, social media, or websites, and I tell them I don't care about your resume, where you worked, or where you learned what you say you know, just need me links to your sample work or portfolio, and let me do my own research. It is amazing how many people fake it in digital marketing, and the analytics never lie when you check their work sample.

&#x200B;

That being said, I have found the technical skills are the ones people are willing to pay for. It took me 3 years of banging my head with Youtube to get where I am today, but have enough of a skill set that I can convince businesses or clients to give me 10% of all the revenue I generate for them. CSS/HTML/SEO and marketing automations with API's are where the money at, and where even small business owners are willing to spend money to take a risk on scaling on their business. 
Just learn some basic coding skill with tracking insertion. It's where the money is beside strategy, so learn it. 
I started out thinking the way you did, putting years of sales and marketing experience and knowledge to work digitally. 

Technically, the answer is yes, but as I learned, the more of the basic tech you now the better, if only to hold a reasonable conversation the IT Department or the Webmaster or any others on the tech side.  It's also not that hard to learn if you approach it systematically or step by step or whatever learning process works best for you.  

Hanging around Reddit is a good start. Just reading about the technical issues others face and doing some google searching when you come across something you don't understand will work to your advantage.  Focus on the areas you think you should know and it will grow exponentially after a while. 

For grins, knowledge and a bit of self promotion, start a blog. Wordpress is fine. It's a good way to learn the tech side. 
Yes, it’s doable but it’ll make you a very attractive candidate if you understood the tech side as digital marketing can involve basic HTML/CSS knowledge (website management, email marketing, pixel implementations for google analytics or social).

Without the tech side you could still have roles involving strategizing. Depending on how an agency is formed you could be a digital strategist meaning you’re the brains behind the direction and there may be a different team for the more technical items (though not all agencies are like this and more often than not in-house roles will wear both hats.)

Or you could look into social media management which can be non-technical but I think the really attractive candidates will have a slight technical background with running campaigns + implementing the tracking pixels (though tbf if you have some computer knowledge you can pick this up IMHO). However I know many who don’t know this part and will ask for someone else’s help with this. The negative to that is that usually you won’t advance in SM roles without the further knowledge.

Since you have a PR background maybe look into SEO? It is related to writing so your PR skills will be helpful and you don’t have to understand super technical items. There are technical SEO elements but I think, like mentioned above, if you have basic understanding of how web stuff works you can pick it up. Otherwise copywriting with keyword research and optimizing copy with keywords isn’t too technical I don’t think. SEO is just a lot of “rules” and “best practices” to help your website ranking and it’s a lot of testing/playing around/monitoring analytics. 
i don't see why coding skills are required for a digital marketer , most companies should have a IT team but i guess learning those things would make it better at securing a job 
I was a graphic and web designer before going to grad school for PR. While I already had some technical skills that have helped me tremendously, the concepts behind PR have also made me a better marketer. Too many marketers focus only on short-term results, where public relations professionals usually take the long-term reputation view. 

I’ve found many more opportunities since moving from communication roles to digital marketing. 
Hi,

Since you are from Communication background, you can easily take up Content marketing. If have a fair enough idea of how to create marketing valuable content.

Hope it helps

Thanks
Yes, digital marketing can be suitable for simple PR campaigns as well. Regardless of whether your product/service is tecchie or non-tecchie you can benefit from digital marketing anyways. People promote events, webinars via SMM, SMS or even PPC. 

But you will need to have some sort of technical skills if you want to succeed and bring your PR skills to a new level. How to have these skills? Make sure to have a good knowledge base which is going to be the 30%  of the job but practising it is going to be the other 70% on your way to mastering digital marketing.
Thanks for all the inputs, everyone! Lots to think about!
IF you want to test an agency, ask for previous clients reference and check their one page SEO, better yet, looks at their website thru SEOQuake and see how they are performing themselves, it's usually a red or green flag to me, there is other way but, I always start with that.
Wow that is some bullshit test mate. Everyone has to start somewhere right?
This is hilarious because at my last agency, all digital team members had less than 2 years of experience. We were responsible for multiple campaigns that made up 25k + monthly retainers. The results? We never had a client renew after 6 months. Lol

Although for SEO, we hit a lot of our KPIs. It was really more social that was a fail.
[removed]
Wordpress all the way. I haven't worked with wix at any point because it never appealed to me. Wordpress has all the plugins that you want and it is quite easy to adjust them to your needs. As fir hosting that is a different topic. Hiw heavy is your future website? Do you think that you will need a developer or are you ok just googling everything? Github is a great source of information on how to code/fix the issues
I would also say WordPress. for all the reasons Arthur has outlined. Wix is new and I havent tried it. It might be better, but just not as widely used as WP
Wordpress because you have more flexibility with customizations.
Wix is the worst in regards to SEO. Wordpress is the best CMS if you ever plan on doing SEO. 
I think wordpress is best for you.
In terms of SEO I also think that WordPress is the preferred option.
Wordpress with divi
You can try using Mobirise website builder.  
It offers a free hosting as well.
I have no experience with Tinder, but I feel like there's a solid lack of intent there. I have used Snapchat quite a bit. It has a pretty cheap CPC, but overall bounce rate is high. Most likely due to my client's services not being the best for the platform, but it's a nice channel for excess budget.

1. Pretty sure you can advertise non-us to US. I'd check their ad policies.
2. Don't think 3rd party hosting is an option with Snapchat, so you rely on platform data, which covers bare bones delivery metrics and engagement.
3. Snapchat is typically short form heavily branded video. I think display is an option, but the main engagement is "swipe up to see more".
4. Snapchat has the basic demographic and affinity/interest categories. They have a few 3rd party data behavioral audiences that are interesting.

Overall, depends on the service you're offering. Snapchat is still fairly new to the marketing scene. If your unsure, maybe look into Facebook advertising, and target Instagram stories.
I don't know about Tinder Ads and Snapchat ads because they are expensive. But have you tried using a DSP?
Sorry for the zombie revival, have tried snapchat....either we are doing it wrong or it's garbage!  I actually came here looking for advice from anyone who had had success with the platform.  

Their marketing support team gave us the following advice "Get your branding in the first 1-2 seconds and your CTA in 3-5 seconds"....implication being users are frantically trying to close/skip the ads and by the 4th second you have already lost them.

Other curiosity was the reported high number of "Swipe ups" from snaps analytics platform but metrics from the destination analytics showed no increase in traffic. Snap were unable to explain this, but insisted they had to charge us for the swipe ups.
[deleted]
Saying SEO is dead
I like when someone’s “innovative” idea is to copy exactly what a competitor did. 

Also, nothing about investing in video is innovative at this point unless you have a way to send your content directly into my brain.
Powtoon is my favorite and I've tried damn near all of them

Great editor, pretty much any video style you can think of, etc..
i would like to prefer  VideoScribe  and Camtasia . Both these tool are really good for  Agency and the Pro+ plan 
Filmora!!
I just signed up for Biteable, having a play with it and seems pretty good for the price
Very basic editing windows movie maker...
Or use kinemaster app
I prefer filmora and Videoscribe(Whiteboard animation)
There's a larger community at r/digital_marketing
I wish I had more yo share. I'll try to post good ecommerce articles and videos. Would love for this sub to be more active also!
This sub's topic is about a professional skill. We are all gainfully employed. No time = no posts.
Optimization Techniques -
 http://allensnowdendigital.com/category/optimization-techniques
Maybe because it's still an emerging market? I'm not entirely sure.

I joined this sub when I started working for a digi firm and was bummed to see that there's not a lot going on. There's so much to learn every day as this field is constantly evolving.

I suppose I'll have to be more of a participant as I know I cant be the only one in this sub in this position lol
Honestly? I just don't feel like there are any experts here. Everyone seems to be early in their career and there's way too many "How much should I charge" questions.
There are plenty of entry level jobs with a more generic outline (typically "Communications Coordinator" or the like). I've interviewed quite a few people for digital marketing positions and I think what sets many people apart is the ability to read, set-up, and analyze analytical tools (like Google Analytics and/or Tag Manager). 

There are a lot of "social media managers" out there who cannot tie the metrics back to their strategy. It seems you have a bit of background on that with your own business, so definitely show that ability on the resume.

What I like to see in resumes is how the person has tied back their knowledge / tactics into a metric (e.g increased email subscribers by X% or managed $Y in advertising spend). Also, those who come prepared with a few constructive notes on the organization really helps identify your knowhow (e.g I noticed you Google Analytics is installed incorrectly or you're not using Tag Manager to fire your analytical tags).

Source: Digital Marketer for ~10 years for ad agencies and sports marketing.


/u/ScotchHarbour and /u/BigRodVonHugenDong are giving you great advice. Get AdWords certified, learn the ins and outs of Excel, and master analytics. That'll help you skip the peon steps of stuff you've already done (SEO, PPC, ETC) and help you become the boss of strategy. You've got good experience it sounds like, so you probably don't need to start at the bottom.
Hey, I'm now a mod here, also over at /r/webmarketing (thanks for visiting). I'm working on cleanup. Please keep reporting to help me get through all this junk.

Thanks
Thanks for the referral. Definitely looks like a better community. Shame, really, since this one has potential and I feel like there are a lot of quality lurkers. Just seems there are more spammers. See you over there.
Thanks for the link! :) 
Thank you! I am definitely unsubscribing from this and subscribing to the other one! 
Really informative post! Share your business(es) here please, I'd love to have a look at what you do!
Getting potential new customers or clients to come to you rather than chasing them down is the core purpose of Inbound Marketing – but how does it really work? http://www.prodo.com/what-is-inbound-marketing/
I work in digital marketing FT for 3 years now... honestly it encompasses so much that it really depends on the company you work for and who (or who's not) on the marketing team. Need a website fixed but no in-house developer? Congrats! You're the new webmaster. Have a new company newsletter coming out but no editor? Cool, you're now the content manager! I'd say if you work for an agency you'll get the typical cookie-cutter job, but this isn't typical. Cookie cutter: social media, paid search, SEO, SEM, google analytics number crunching, landing page conversion, ecommerce, ALL of lead generation, content development, and SO MUCH MORE!! I disagree with poster above, support roles for sales are called most often SDRs - or sales development reps. Not digital marketing related, but lead generation related.

To answer your question: your best resource is job postings for digital agencies, but it depends on the digital agency. There are full-scale service which would include web development, or industry-specific which would encompass basics. It all depends. 
What type of digital marketing?  It encompasses a variety of things...  could mean websites, SEM, Facebook ads, reputation management, mobile ads, display ads, etc. etc.

What vertical (industry) are you interested in and what part of digital marketing are you curious about?

For account or sales people---   entry level digital marketing jobs will be as a support person or maybe some type of title like "associate."   These people generally handle basic support requests from clients.  

From there you can move up the food chain to program managers and account managers, then eventually to director then executive.  There are usually a few more middle tier layers than what I described here.

From the technical side---  it is more based on technical knowledge and merit.  you have basic level programmers and Project managers and team leads.  And above them you have more experienced developers, usually some sort of directors, then executives/VP/CTO.


Grayface says people end up doing what is necessary, I understand what you mean, but I'm wondering what kind of work/positions are there, meaning, what kind of work is there to be done, and assume here I don't know ANYTHING (because I don't :))

So, from what I've gathered so far, there are:

- technical jobs related to marketing - SEO, google analytics, SEM, what else?

- community management - this means handling the soc media accounts, right?

- copywriting and content writing

- graphic design

- technical jobs not directly related to marketing - web design, someone mentioned programmers

- account manager - someone who handles everything the agency does for a particular client?

Are there any other typically functions inside an ad agency that I'm missing?

Translatepure asked what industry I'm interested in and what part of dig marketing: I'm not really interested in a particular industry, more dig marketing in general. As for what part of dig marketing, right now I'm trying to understand what parts there are :). Generally I'm most interested in the creative side, but, as I say, I want to understand the different kind of positions that exist and the different kind of work that gets done.
Hi, that is a vast topic to understand by a single post or comment. There is so much going on in the digital marketing field that it has become a subject of study for graduation in some colleges. 

It is good to make a start by following some of the professionals already out there and get to know what they do and how they excel. If you need a headstart, you can read my article [here](http://www.dailymorningcoffee.com/internet-marketing-gurus-2017/) where I have tried to list the best internet marketing gurus to follow in recent times. I hope that helps you to find a direction. 
If you're looking for resources on learning the different aspects of digital marketing in general I put together a [resource guide](http://www.themissionmarketer.com/digital-marketing-resources) broken down by topic (SEO, content, analytics, CRO, etc). Hope you get some use out of it! 
When you know what type of work these agencies' carry out, you can get a brief idea on what type of jobs these agencies' will be offering. When you go through their services you will get an idea on what agencies expect when they hire you.

You can start by looking at the case studies of these agencies in your niche. There are many directory websites who provide this information and one such directory is AgencyCritic (https://agencycritic.com/).

I hope this is helpful.
From having done client services for a few years, I would say design. I get a lot of people I speak to that "just want an ad" and don't realize it takes both a copywriter and a designer to accomplish that. 
First I'd say get really good at copywriting. There's a lot of junk out there ands it's hard to find a really good writer. Next, practice different forms of marketing writing. Email, blogs, research reports, ads, product sheets, etc are all very different and require knowledge and nuance. Finally, I'd say practice complementary skills like basic SEO /  keyword research, HTML for writing web pages, and basic analytics for measuring success. This makes you more desirable as a fullstack writer, rather than a mediocre videographer or designer or coder.
Coding is indeed a great skill, but to get any traction in it takes a whole lot of one's time for a long time.

What I would do is aim for on-page, technical SEO coding proficiency, and then more and more SEO skills.

That area most closely aligns with digital marketing and copywriting.
Video may be a good path to pursue here. Video is far more effective than standard display and pubs are rushing to be able to create additional video inventory due to the higher CPMs commanded by video.
As a digital marketer manager myself, being a generalist can be very marketable, but being a specialist can often be preferable. Particularly from a freelance perspective.

A few areas to consider are digital marketing automation and web analytics and reporting. Front end dev has become simplified with CMS systems, but to fully understand it to an employable extent you would really need to spend a substantial amount of time. Should you go the web development route, learn the fundamentals of HTML5 and CSS3 and then progress to languages such as Javascript.

Video editing is similar, but the learning curve isn't quite as substantial.  Hope this helps.
I have both my Adwords Certification  and Analytics certifications. At the end of the day it's more important that you actually understand how to use them but it's a good resume booster, may have helped me land the part time job I have now.

There are also a few sites that give all the answers. It  would suck to waste two hours writing the test only to get 79% and fail. What I did, always make your selection first and then reference the answers from a cheat site. This way you're learning too.
Google is one of the most recognized and respected modern brands today. If you have the chance to connect your business with a great brand why wouldn't you?
It's important to have the skills but the actual certification itself is not a very valuable one. 
Do the Google certifications cost money? I already use ad words and analytics regularly, but I agree that it would help as a resume builder. I remember when I looked into getting my salesforce certification as a resume builder and it was thousands of dollars! 
I've basically hired people based on having the certification over others. It was on top of showing proficiency on the topics in the interview, but also shows they took the effort, either to get the certification or cheat. Both show initiative and ability to problem solve. 
Some superb advice here, thanks!
A lot of what you described is a part of inbound marketing. Content promotion is a big part of inbound, because backlinks improve your organic leads. 

Also, I disagree with your classification of "evergreen content". No piece of content is evergreen in this day and age. Something written just a couple of years ago could very well be obsolete, and I'm talking about all industries here. 

I fully agree with your 30% content + 70% promotion philosophy though. 
Great post, can you recommend the tool you use to monitor specific topics on social media?
starting in 15 minutes

https://plus.google.com/u/2/events/cq084mhi9b7odu3efot6ea71o30

live video in and out of our site design
first link died

Follow along today here!

Live now (we had some teething erros)
https://plus.google.com/events/ckgr4lkjmmkcpamk6kkhdun5hr0
What is your experience? This is coool
Posted a new update above

Sent 2 new pitches out
Site is almost complete
Recorded 3 videos of progress so far with another later today!

Dan
Video playlist of each days activities now in place

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDm-49srAlDFdazjSc3gtCZ3IHv100zG_
Edited for day 3 and added in video with analysis of our new site, breakdown of component parts and goals and then our traffic and monetisation strategy!

Enjoy
New content added
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dPXQ_wfTVDY
Injured my back but got a HEAP done today and yesterday, didnt have chance to post!
Just got a post from the new site added to inbound by one of the editors

http://inbound.org/articles/view/how-an-e-commerce-store-generated-18-750-in-sales-from-114-facebook-marketing-in-48-hours

Also just got approved for a post for a high traffic (370k per month+) site!
Got featured on a podcast that went live today as part of the success of this challenge
As a new update heres an interview I gave after the article went live https://soundcloud.com/dirtcheapstartup/crazy-facebook-results-with-daniel-hutt
Its since had over 12,000 views on Inbound, was shared by Hubspot and many others, and resulted in mid 5 figure sales this week alone.....
I may hit this 66 day target!
Come in Dan! Keep us updated! No video update? 
I saw your 2 case studies on your site and after a while saw the video on Facebook, because I hadnt taken any action, with BLEW ME AWAY! So awesome how that works. Keep it up, you're onto a gold mine
This is pretty amazing, 
Ive been focusing on Internet Video Marketing too much lately, 
The money is still truly "In The List"

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4uP42jqKRtSub827NQkxDQ
Commenting to follow progress. I'm at the digital marketing exchange in Cali right now and this excites me 
Do the 66 days start today?
I love Reddit and I know this dude berry well. Please don't up vote this is just a test ? 
Best of luck Dan, I hope you get some valuable data from this indeed :)
What platform are you advertising on? Can you share the ads/lp?
Also can you share some examples of those bot accounts?
Spotify has 300 million playlist. Your playlist has to be lit to stand out.

That being said, several users are doing it over insta and i have suscribed to them.

Use videos with songs and use stories creatively. Be active and engage. If done right, people will check yorlur playlist out sooner than later.

Good luck
Thanks I’ll try that!
How exactly do you monetize a Spotify playlist?
Step 1 - Your spotify list must be really unique and appeal to a certain demographic (if you don't do this no marketing gimmicks will help you gain traction)

Step 2 - I would approach a designer/illustrator to generate a logo to accompany your playlist and social media content so as to make your brand identifiable and stand out

Step 3 - Generate relevant content if possible. News / opinions and memes will help grow your audience
Just adding here that you should do TONS of research on the company before preparing your pitch deck. Even though it’s just an internship, companies consistently undervalue digital marketing and expect the world for pennies.

If you have experience/samples from previous work that would apply to this company, reference that and try to steer clear of laying out all your great ideas before they make a hiring decision.

Show them what having YOU on the team could mean for their overall growth strategy, not just your ideas.

Unfortunately, I’ve seen dozens of people put together incredible pitch decks, provide amazing solutions, only to be turned down for the job. Surprise, surprise, a month later they launch a campaign veeeerry similar to the ones they proposed during the interview.

Your time, energy and education are valuable. I hope this isn’t the case, but I just had to say something! Wish you the best of luck!
I'd be happy to help. I have worked in digital marketing for almost 8 years and can try to point you in the right direction.
By X amount of prospects, do you mean leads? It really depends what area of digital marketing you're focusing on.

If it's on the ppc side, I would focus on the structure of the site and build keywords from there in broad match modified based on the services/products they provide. You really need to research the company and their products / services before doing anything else. For example, What kind of business is the company? Where is the company located? What times do we open and close? What areas are we targeting? What is the unique selling proposition of our products/services? What are things we have done that make us stand out from our competition (Awards/Reviews/Performance)? 

 What I would also make sure is that everything is tight knit and ignore volume. Reason I say this is because 1. Google keyword planner is not 100% accurate when it comes to volume statistics and 2. Because it's better to have low volume and a high amount of conversions than high volume and a low amount of conversions. Why? Because having lots of volume but low conversions is literally flushing money down the drain. And conversions = money... And that's the end goal here. I would build up my ad groups, keywords and negative keyword list. Then I would create three ads per ad group for a/b split testing. I would also tack on two ad extensions for all ads, which the most common ones are call extensions and locations extensions. Those two get the most clicks. Then I would check the site to see if it's optimized for mobile as well as the sites loading times. Mobile is especially important because 60% of people today now surf the web with their smartphones according to mozcon. Then I would finally create a retargeting campaign because 95% of people who go onto your page leave within the next 5 seconds, but when your ad tracks then, your conversions rise.

Phew.... That was a lot. I can talk about seo too but it would be just about as long lol.
You may be able to impress with some very simple and free things, for example get a free trial on SEM Rush - show him some reports on relevant keywords and traffic, links etc.

Depending how how advanced they are even simple things like that could blow their mind.

Competitor analysis would be another interesting thing to show them.
Just apply.

Agencies are desperate for help these days. They are willing to hire people that don't have that much experience but rather good knowledge about digital marketing concepts. You already have the certifications, which shows the employer that you care about learning.
ye go knock doors and have high energy, if you're really desesperate or need a job, you can offer volunteering to gain trust.
Totally possible and sounds like you are off to a decent start with getting certifications! I'd also take HubSpot's free inbound marketing certification, which will give you more info on email, SEO, content, marketing automation, etc.

But like others have said, apply to a marketing agency. I started out that way, learned ALOT, they also are willing to teach you too. It can elevate your marketing career. Don't expect to make a lot of money right away, but in two years I gained so much knowledge and doubled my salary.

Also consider an internship or take on some part time contract marketing work to boost your resume/knowledge bank. 

Best of luck!
First learn the details of topic u want to apply for jobs. if you are planning for social media make sure you learn about specific topics like FB, FB Ads, IG, YouTube etc. So you can show your skills to employer. You can also apply for internship and then based on performance get permanent position.
How about taking up internships? That's the easiest doorway to establish yourself for a digital marketing role within any company;  Try it for 2-3 months, learn as much as you can and do your best to impress, if they like you, quite likely you'll get converted to full time. as an intern, people expect less from you, so this is the best time for you to shine!
You can use the Udemy's The complete digital marketing course to get started on what you could do as a digital marketer. there are other more detailed courses as well but it's a good start. good luck
I got into digital marketing at an entry level by knowing someone is the business, however another person came on right before me as an intern, because of his eagerness to succeed  and the work he put in, he was offered a full time position within 2-3 months... just a little encouragement, give it a try!
Just wanted to wish you best of luck, I’m in the same boat!! I’m currently a Spanish/ESOL teacher but want this to be my last year, aka I want to be done teaching in June and start a new job in August. I’ve been studying on my own like crazy. It’s nerve-wracking to think about job searching in a completely new field, but this post makes me feel hopeful. Best of luck to you!!!
It IS possible. I was in the exact same situation about 8 months ago. It took me about 2 months after leaving my current job at the time to learn everything I could about digital marketing, which might seem too short a time to learn about DM, but since I had a background in marketing/advertising (being a communication arts graduate), everything I studied within the 2-month time frame was easy to digest.

With the right mindset and attitude, you too can land that digital marketing job!
Take Seth Hymes digital marketing course if you have the money. I landed a job in 2 months with that course, Seth is a genius. If you're looking for free or inexpensive course, check out Udemy and Lynda.
Start applying NOW. Don't wait until after you gain good experience because I'm telling you right now...this career doesn't require a fancy degree, or years and years of experience. Definitely try to get the Facebook Blueprint certification but other than that, most of the skills you will learn will be on the job so don't worry too much about experience.
Google Docs with folders, Trello, and calendar. That's it!
Google Docs + EverNote + Google Calendar and iOS Calendar synched up.  I'm also super OCD in terms of staying organized, but I don't necessarily spend a lot of time (or any money at all) to do so.
asana
Hi!

We use tools like Trello, Monday and especially Google Docs and Google Calendar!

&#x200B;

The most important tip is to break down your tasks to smaller tasks - put them in your calendar and work on it!

Good luck meow!
I use a bullet journal! I used normal planners religiously in school but most of them weren't quite the right format for work
Remember the milk is an amazing tool and not just for work. I use it to manage all of my tasks, for today, tomorrow and into the future. Highly recommend, but you have to be religious about using it across all platforms. 
I used to use wunderlist but it wouldn’t load when I was on the subway. Remember the milk is way more stable and does a better job of syncing across multiple platforms.
I use Monday - and I have a notebook with a table of contents that I carefully keep track of for different topics...kinda like a bullet journal but not really
I will not work without Asana. It’s better if a team uses it but it’s quite useful on its own as well.
Trello for tasks, Drive for file storage and documents, Slack for chat. my team haven’t invested into any schedulers yet so i just use Facebook for scheduling.
am I a dork for emailing myself to do lists before I close for the day?

Some great tips here. I am a huge fan of Evernote because I am cutting & pasting all the time but I really need a way to put it all together. Thanks for the insights!!
Google calendar linked with all my accounts

Physical agenda to write out notes so I can write everything down as it comes. 

Social media scheduling tools 

CRM for sales and account management (hubspot for full time job, streak for side businesses)
Wunderlist 
For short term projects I can add other people to my list, create tasks with sub tasks, add notes to my tasks and upload related files to each. I also have tasks for personal things like groceries since I have the app on my phone and can add them on the fly.
* Outlook Calendar for time-boxed tasks.
* Confluence tasks (with deadlines) for checklist kind of things and for tasks associated with certain people/groups/teams.

In the past I have also used .txt files. And Trello. And Wunderlist. All systems worked. But Outlook Calendar plus Confluence seems to work the best for me.
If their presence is very small, I would suggest you to start with a benchmark vs competitors. What they do, where, try to estimate budgets / audiences.. charts will be naturals to build then.
Coschedule has some templates for free that are a good starting point. Just google them
Hinge Marketing has some good stuff, but most of it isn’t free. If you are just working out a plan and need a course of action and templates, look at their offerings and see if one of the classes is in budget and has the templates and guidance you need. Sometimes its worth paying for stuff like this. 

I am not affiliated with Hinge in any way, but I have used and received value for their stuff, and it is generally at an attractive price point if you sign up, do the stuff, grab the materials, and be done. 
It's possible in MailChimp, you just have to make a new list/newsletter
You’ll have to make sure they opt into your different newsletters! Or when the sign up and confirm they have to select the newsletter they want to join. 
Can you set up another list to send out the 3-4 once off emails? That way subscribers will be able to unsubscribe from the second list.

You can use a tool like Zapier to subscribe a user from your main list automatically to a new list. 
It’s possible to have subscription preferences at different “email groups” (e g newsletters, sale emails) in Eloqua. That way if they unsubscribe from newsletters, they can still receive sale emails for examples. You just segment at subscription preferences every time you send a campaign. Hope this helps. 
SEMrush for competitive research
I use SpyFu for this, I like the UI more than SEMrush
Semrush!
I'm not sure if I understood what you mean but I Ahrefs can be used to tell which keywords are targeted by which site and which ad and which landing page. 
No doubt, SEMRush is the best tool for this.
Since you already have SEMrush, check out the social media workflows that are on here: [https://campaigns.semrush.com/easy-solution](https://campaigns.semrush.com/easy-solutions/). r/SEMrush
Aaand, speaking of SEMrush - are you using our Social Media Tracker tool for your analysis? It should be a perfect match for you if you are looking for

>capabilities to get a quick high high level look at competitor metrics like followers, engagement rates, type of content, etc. 

And yes, I would really recommend checking out the social media workflows at the Easy Solutions page, as u/vendetta4guitar has suggested. ;)

\- Kate from SEMrush

&#x200B;
Ahrefs.
I'm on the same boat. Im trying to get my competitor facebook page insight but cant find a tool. For example, i want to find their target audience.
Ahrefs  is the best tool for competitor analysis...
Social Media Analytics Tools:

1. Sprout-social
2. BuzzSumo
3. IconSquare
4. Google Analytics
 SEMRush is definitely one of the best tools to check the competitors. However, you can use Sprout social, social blade as well for checking analytics of your competitors. This will help to develop strategies which will help you to excel in the field of digital marketing. 
Socialbakers
Similarweb  - it varies in accuracy though but you get a basic picture
Yes, there are distinct differences in the concepts.  Social monitoring is typically the act of listening to your owned channels and interacting on those.  For example, responding when someone @mentions your brand on Twitter, or seeing reactions to your brand posts.

Social Listening is much broader and, typically, leverages query logic to look across part of or all of a social channel.  For example, depending on your listening vendor, you may get access to the Twitter decahose (10% of the real-time twitter stream), or the Twitter firehose (the entire Twitter stream).  You can also run that query across multiple channels to look for conversations that, while not specifically @mentioning your brand, may be talking about it (it may be misspelled, or a topic of conversation may impact your brand).  That is listening for new conversations, but there are also tools that can look at historical channel data to look for conversation trends, and the like.

Finally, there is benchmarking, where a brand could use listening data to compare their engagement and/or brand perception against their competitors.

With a good social platform, you may combine listening data in a monitoring dashboard, so there could certainly be overlap, but they are distinct capabilities of a platform.

Hope it helps.
Broadly speaking, monitoring is intended to provide you with items to act on. Comments on your FB posts, posts using your branded hashtags, people speaking negatively about your brand on Twitter, etc.

Listening is more of a research activity, where you try to gather additional consumer data on a certain topic that feeds back into your marketing or R&D department, but is not directly actionable. I.e. if I’m in the umbrella business and I want to gather knowledge about people’s behavior and attitudes around rain, I would listen on social around that subject and gather data that my engineers can use to make a better umbrella - but I wouldn’t reply to each person talking about rain trying to sell them my umbrella.
I think both are same because these are the ways to analysis and prepare the social marketing strategy. From my point of view social monitoring and social listening tools  are different.
Google Data Studio has a Facebook connector. Have you tried that?

&#x200B;

Hope it helps

&#x200B;
You might want to use facebook offline attribution tool if you manage to get hold their offline data. (disclaimer: make sure your client knows you are going to upload the data on Facebook). 
If the booking engine is cross linked into the Google Analytics account you should be able to see the FB attribution. 

Personally I feel that if you don't have this information readily available to view/show you've done your client a disservice. 


Try using whatagraph it's cheap like 99 a month and create simple and easy to understand reports.
Datorama
You hit the nail on the head, I want to see revenue. You should have been looking at these numbers throughout the year. Waiting until now is like is waiting month to optimize someone. All your metrics are vanity numbers that don't mean much. Maybe this client won't care but you have totally done this backwards.
The huge downside is if the lead quality is not optimized then all the leads in the world don't matter. This is the big issue we see with client's who left another agency. Getting leads isn't good enough... you should work with the client to make sure they get closed. 
While we charge a retainer but we monitor closely the sales funnel. The way we do it is by giving them our lead management system which is linked with all the lead sources. Tracking their statuses into conversion (marked by clients) helps in optimising the lead quality. 
Our agency is moving toward a per-lead cost for some services like mobile ads and automated marketing but not for primary services like SEO, SMM, and PPC.
\-I enjoy the creative part of the work, but setting up and monitoring/adjusting campaigns in adwords and FB, adroll, outbrain and the rest is a pain in the ass. 

\-If you reach out to a few marketing/ad agencies you shouldn't have a hard time finding somewhere to let you intern. 

\-Just let them know what you want to learn, and tell them they do it well (bonus if they actually do). 

\-Stress ranges from 2 (when I'm doing creative work) to 8 (when I'm troubleshooting in some asinine corner of adwords or customer service, or dealing with SEO). 

\-If you count networking and after-work drinks with coworkers, you'll probably work much more than 40 hours. Everyone I know that has any success in marketing/advertising works a lot. You're spending 20 hours doing the work, 20 learning (everything changes constantly), 10 waiting on coworkers/clients/customer service, and 10 marketing yourself/networking, etc. 

\-There are a LOT of people entering the field every day. It takes a lot to keep up with the changing industry. It's not just updating facebook a few times a week. To be successful you will have to work hard, read a lot, and have a big network. 

\-Not trying to be Debby Downer, just trying to be realistic. Have fun, learn lots, work on your hard AND soft skills. 

\-
I'm starting to get soured on the field after years. I started my career at a digital agency. Everything was new bright and shiny.

After some years and promotions I felt that I could no longer sustain what was being asked from me. Agency stress level is 6 to 10. Everything can be cool while it's going well, but just like another poster said if things outside your control happen and success stops you can feel intense pressure. Again this is only agency side and only if you really let it effect you (I was extremely invested in the clients success and the company including appearing on podcasts/talk shows and we had our own digital show). Workload during this time was around 60-80/week.

I left agency life to be an independent contractor while I figure out what to do with my life. The money is great and the freedom is fantastic (I bought a camper with the GF and we are just traveling and working remotely). Workload now is around 30 hours, stress level 2/10.

It is definitely worth going to an agency to learn. There is no where else you will learn the cutting of edge of all digital marketing skills. 

Let me know if you have any questions, good luck!


I can answer a few. I love my career so far in DM. It’s fun, I get to use my creative side and come up with ideas, and my job allows me travel as we have conferences in cool locations (going to Hawaii in 3 weeks with them) which is cool. I used to be salary at my job which I hated. I’m hourly timesheet now. Do I work more then 40 hours? Sometimes. Depends what events we have going on. But I don’t mind overtime here and there. Extra money never hurts..

I get to work on our website, email campaigns , mobile app, partner marketing ... it’s really enjoyable and I want to stay in this field. I just went to a marketing / creative field forum and they talked about how our field is hot right now and will continue to be...

I couldn’t see myself doing something else 
I definitely like what I do!

My stress level is usually middle of the road. I'm focused on e-commerce, so we have very specific goals we are trying to hit. When things are going well it is very exciting. When we're not hitting our revenue goals it can be very stressful. I work in-house, and it is much less stressful than when I worked for an agency. 


My hours are typically 40ish. But I think it really depends on what company you work for and what aspect of digital marketing you are in. For example, during busy season, I often take work home over the weekend or in the evening. If you get into social media, you may be responding to comments or messages at all hours. 

If you are going to pursue DM, know that you need to be willing and excited to always learn. Things change quickly, and you don't want to get behind. Also know that each company and each type of business is going to operate differently and have different goals, so my experience is potentially very different from someone else's. Oh, and get really good at Google Analytics and Excel. 
It's fun and also stressful. Many nights your up late. The worst thing is dealing with bad clients though and you need to learn to just drop them.
I like both the creative and analytic side of the job since it is marketing with real time data.

Take the ads management route or social media route

Yes there is stress but as the time goes by you become better with your output. So, now i am about 4/10 since i transitioned from digital marketer to full stack marketer

Hours? Something close to 14 hours a day, every day.

Certification is something important but not everyone requires them \[since not everyone knows they exist\]

&#x200B;

The problem is the awful pay here (Greece) that is why i am beginning to expand into other countries.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Have you tried marketing yourself digitally? There's a new digital marketing company owned by /u/JigmeYonten that might be able to help.
Wow something new I learned, lol, seriously I am getting ready to roll out ads.  I just would like to know any alternatives that won't hurt my wallet. 
LinkedIn is also a good source, lol
Not to ruin your parade, but going 'fully automatic' can really piss off potential clients 
Everyone makes mistakes. Even if it were to impact your position at your current company, own it and move forward with the idea that you'll do better the next time around.

However, it sounds like you had a massive workload. Be proud of that - that is also a part of your profile, and own that as well.
I'd evaluate on the following:

1. How much revenue was this campaign relative to the rest of the media they ran?
2. How mission-critical was the campaign on the timeline you had (can you make up for it by running it late)?
3. Did you lie to the client or your employer?

Echoing the other comment, people make mistakes. As long as you're not unethical and you own your successes as well as your failures, your employer and client should understand that. If they don't, look for another job.
Totally depends on how the client reacts, and how important the lost campaign was. 

Come up with a solution for better communication and processes with the client, and suggest this as a learning. Everyone makes mistakes, so it could be nothing. Client could get pissy and request you move off the account. 

At least you didn’t blame it on a “platform delivery error” like most agency staff would ;)
Make sure and prove it won t happen again.
 How ? Governance !

 Make a ppt with processes : who is responsible for what (google « RACI «  or « swimlanes »), with timings and retroplannings. Note every step. Identify the problem on your campaign and set a fix in your process (redundancy, validation,..)
Do checklists with every step valid for every campaign, print them on a board and use them. (Google « kanban board »). It will’decrease your error’rate.

First It will make you credible. An error is good because it improves the process (and know how of your company)
Second it will make your work scalable. It allows communication and agile work (when you ll lead a team, you ll just have to say. « Follow the plan »)
Third, this work is very valuated in pitches. When you ll talk to a prospect, show them’a glimpse of your processes, it will recomfort them (or justify a higher price)
Fourth, doing agile and processes are good for your resume (especially for big companies)



If the campaign was about to bring good revenue then it is really a big mistake. But you can run a campaign similar to the previous one and try to do your best. This will also make your client and boss happy. It's just the start of 2019 so, you have a good opportunity to start with.
Case studies and examples of success.

This is what was happening, then I did this because of these reasons and now this new better thing is happening.

I’ve documented my entire approach, process and philosophy for every aspect of digital marketing that I consider myself an expert in and tie it back to real world successes I’ve had. Why did I do all this work? Because it automates the process when I start a new project and have to work with my team to execute it.

Years ago while I was a student, I started a lifestyle website to tinker around with and was trying to learn through experience how to get more people to visit it. I got my first job because I was talking about this hobby website and what I was doing to market it to some random guy at a wedding and he connected me with someone who needed my skill set.

You must be an expert, period. If you’re not completely confident that you know the best practices in your discipline then continue reading, learning, practicing. Your portfolio should reflect that expertise. 

Tip; when looking for other jobs, or clients; pick a company of an appropriate size, check out their LinkedIn to see what’s happening in their marketing department and do an analysis of their current strategy with cursory recommendations. You’ll stand out much more that way.
Start with WordPress. Buy a hosting plan and a domain. Try to rank it by using various methods such as SEM, SEO, PPC. If you like what you are doing, then take it from there. 

&#x200B;

Hope it helps.
The tutorial that was suggested sounds great. I'd also consider looking at the "resources" tabs for different platforms. Many of the platforms within a field will have free ebooks and tutorials on that topic.

For example, Moz is an SEO platform so they have an article/ebook called "Beginners guide to SEO". They created this content to market their product and bring traffic to their website (content marketing) but the information is actually really useful and reliable. Many other sites have that sort of stuff too so keep an eye out.

Also, Google Analytics has a free course on how to use their platform that also goes over AdWords. That's specifically for the Google platform but it is probably a good place to start.

I'm relatively new and still learning also. It can be really cool and it's awesome that you can see the direct results of your efforts, unlik with traditional marketing. Good luck!
If you wanna learn and I can let you practise on one of my sites. What kind of niche or topic are you looking at? 
I've made a tutorial about how to start a website. Recommend buying a domain name. I've discussed it in the tutorial as well. Send me a message if you want to have the link. I'd post it here but I'm sure it will get removed. 
U could use weebly.com as ur website builder if u dont  want to pay a monthly fee. It's the best website if u want to do it for free. It also gives u a free domain but if u want a good one apart from weebly then I suggest greengeeks it cost 3.95$ per month which is great and it loads the fastest.
You can build a website locally on your machine using software like WAMP (windows) or MAMP (mac) which lets you simulate a server without buying a hosting plan.

Start with this, install Wordpress locally using this software, and see if you can learn html, css, really basic PHP (you don’t need much for front end), and Bootstrap which is a html and css framework for easily building websites that are responsive (look good on both desktop and mobile).

If you get some proficiency in all this, then you are only limited by your own design skill and copywriting ability, but you can outsource that if you need to.

If you build a website you like you can transfer it to a real hosting plan if you want to.
Look on Udemy for some good courses on this.

It sounds like you want to learn everything all at once, and it is not like that. What do you want to learn first?

Setting up a wordpress site is easy, lots of vids on youtube and all over the itnernet for that.

But making ads and SEO and content etc that is some tougher stuff. But still videos all over the internet for that too.

Maybe start with a wordpress, hosting it, and write some SEO articles, and maybe work on an email with hubspot and mailchimp.

You are kind doing the oppisite of what i did.

I am makign a website now, deciding on the doman name etc, i studied HTML, CSS etc and SEO and learning to write well. I did all this BEFORE making the website. But perhaps your approach is better, not sure. Either way, you need to pace yourself, there is a lot to learn.
I’ve done a rev share if I believe in the product and potential upside. Some tips:
- get some base pay and a budget
- get accurate financial info that shows the baseline 
- set a schedule of when you’ll get paid
- agree to everything in writing 
- you could make a lot more than you usually charge. 
I've been considering this as well. I've had a few rug businesses approach me looking for digital marketing help. They couldn't pay me my usual monthly fee, so they offered me 15-20% of all online sales. I'm still considering it, but I'm worried that the time sunk into building it won't pay off. But on the flip side, if things do take off, the commission from online sales would far exceed the usual rate I charge by 300-500%. 
You should look into LTV of clients here.  You'll only be paid for the first transaction, however you're creating return customers. 
Also if the product is available in store, you'll be my proxy pushing sales there too.
I'd look for a lift % across the board,  SM etc can't be looked at as an independent channel which doesn't affect your channels
I run a small firm, and I do this for select businesses I believe in and people I really want to work with. The way to look at it is that you're effectively investing in the business. You're investing time and skills in the hopes of a future return, so you have to think about if the product/service and business are a good investment.

Some of my projects have been misses, but others have done well, and I did make more than I would have with just the standard fee. It took time, though, and I didn't really see much money for the first couple months.
[deleted]
I was thinking of posting this exact same thing! I run most of my ads thru AdeEspresso purely to avoid having to touch FB Ads. It's shit, it lags on my powerful laptop and Macbook Pro and often it just loads and loads and doesn't work. 

More than once I've had to extend client deadlines because the Ads Manager just stopped working for 24 hours. Support try to help but there's not a lot they can do. 
Just created a new campaign and ad set this afternoon. I noticed the images got lost when publishing but other than that it's fine.
After several chats with support, make sure you reset your business manager pretty often. This should clear most bugs. If you do that, and you still get weird errors, dump the draft and recreate it in incognito mode. It should publish then.

If that does work, clear your browser cache and reset business manager again, just to make sure you're back to a clean slate.

If you're not sure how to reset your ads manager, it's the little gizmo on the top right of business manager. 
Also you can post your hashtags in the first comment rather than your picture description , to make it look more clean 
1. No groups are there on insta like on facebook which are useful. Consider insta like whatsapp in a way. Hence - create an engaging profile where users like to check out the profile due to the content. Profile should be of business type. Content is very important. Hence - creating a content strategy is very important moving forward. Give a good thought about which type of content will help you market your website. 

2. Yes - instagram like facebook keep changing it's code every 30 days. So keep yourself updated about algorithm. As of now - iirc maximum 30 hashtags can be applied. 

3. Again - this all comes in content marketing. For instagram, this is where all the trick lies. For ex - i often use models in promoting my product. It creates good engagement and traffic to website. Same way - picturesque places do the same. And food. And memes. There are many. You need to to consider what brand image you want to give as well

4. Ads - can do many things. Depends on nature and what you want. Traffic flow to website, increasing likes, views and followers etc. Craft ad carefully. 

1. Set up a free business profile

With a business account you can:

Get real-time metrics on how your stories and promoted posts perform throughout the day.

Get insights into your followers and how they interact with your posts and stories.

Add information about your company, such as business hours, location and phone number.

&#x200B;

2. Post and follow users

Start posting content you'd like to see in your feed using relevant hashtags and start following similar accounts.

Make your account on Instagram a business account to get insights about your stories, posts and followers.

Trusted accounts:

Likes: one like in 28 – 36 seconds (1000 at a time, with a 24 hour break);

Follows: one in 28 – 38 seconds and below 200 an hour (1000 a day, with a 24 hour break);

Follow + Like: below 2000 (1000 + 1000) a day, at the rate of once every 28 – 38 seconds;

Comments: below 12-14 an hour with a 350 - 400 seconds break.

New accounts:

The actions interval for the first 12-20 days after the account has been created is 36-48 seconds;

The total limit is 500 actions a day (follow, unfollow, like);

I’d advise to start with the second variant and gradually increase the actions' frequency. The moment you notice Instagram treating your actions as spam, you should slow down and set the limit at that point. 

&#x200B;
1. Hashtags will definitely help this as someone else stated. You can also detail target the audience you want to reach via Facebook Ad Manager (FB owns IG and you can set up ad campaigns for IG within FB). Will help keep your ad spend down, because you're only reaching certain people who are more likely to become clients/customers/etc.
2. There is a max of hashtags, and if you use too many they become redundant. Definitely use them, but be specific and weary of the ones you use to try and build traction.
3. If they're your original images, a small watermark of sorts is a good option. Especially if it's shareable content. If people use your post, repost it or what not, your watermark will be visible which will drive people to your page just because.
4. Yes. Absolutely advertise. Especially if you're in the starting stages. It will bring traffic, which turns to conversions. 

Hope this helps! If you have any questions, feel free to ask!
What about links to my site in the comments

I notice they aren’t clickable. Is there a way to make them clickable ?
FYI Instagram is one of the hardest followings to grow because their is no search engine other than hashtags. It takes a lot of engagement.
Thanks so much, that seems like a very fast frequency of likes and comments. Is that with some sort of program?

I just organically like and message
Uh yea instagram is a peer source of business please do use it.You are thinking to much about it no there are not groups like Facebook.As far as hashtags I don’t think there is. Limit but there probably could be.All I know is there is a limit of you are freinding people messaging people or poking people.Instagram followers come to you so invest in. Advertising and sending ads.
Have a homework assignment due date coming up, I see.
Not sure if this counts but I think what HQ Trivia did was innovative.  A live game show through an app is cool tech.  


Do you know content creation?

If not then hire a graphics designer.

Learn google ads. It's simple. Start with something small and keep learning via trail and error.

Make a fb and insta page. Start posting engaging content. Learn insta hacks how to increase followers. Once you get a good base of followers and decent profile - start with paid ads. They are worth it for apparel industry.

Drive traffic to your website through social media and start using email marketing. Make series of different types of clothes you offer and send bulk email. Use mailchip. It's reliable and simple. When both done - use remarketing. Run such campaigns for 90 days. Results should follow.

Make a youtube channel. Collabrate with insta famous models. Video marketing will be rage in next 5 years. We have moved on to fast internet. 

Keep on the learning curve. All can be done by you. It will be over-whelming. But don't give up. In 2-3 months - you will have enough base to automate everything and chill.

Good luck.

Search on Google, bing, Gmail and YouTube 


Social on Facebook, Instagram, yelp if you've got brick and mortar.


Programmatic for display, dynamic display, native, ctv, advanced TV and connected audio. 

What's your monthly budget? Have you considered an agency to run all of those platforms do you? 

  

You can refer various blogs and online tutorials by Neil Patel, HubSpot, Social Media Examiner and tons of such. It will help to understand the trends, you can also subscribe to these. Moreover I heard webware io provides all such services which can help your business reach people through digital medium. They can write blogs for you also create and maintain social media profiles for you and much more.
Pick a few areas that are likely to be the most effective and do them well. Don't try to take on 5/6 things that will spread yourself too thinly. Once you've got your head around these areas and you perhaps have a system or have outsourced, move onto other areas.
College is not pointless. Every single marketer I work with has a degree. Yeah you can do small time campaigns for some guy who owns a couple car washes but the big agencies and ad tech firms are recruiting college grads not DIYers. 

Regarding where digital marketing is going: Data analytics and data analysis are growing massively. Understanding how programmatic ad channels work is very important. I consider content creation to be separate from what most marketers do, tbh. We’re more concerned with numbers than with the creative aspects of brand messaging but that’s an avenue worth exploring if you have the creativity and vision for it. 
Data will always be important to advertisers. The systems that collect and allow one to capitalize on the data will continue to get easier, for example, Facebook ads and Adwords. The more people they can get using their ad systems the more money they make, regardless if it's finely tuned or not. 

As we see technology evolve so will the opportunities for digital marketers evolve. Look at self-driving vehicles, are these also new ad platforms? Who will help businesses spec out, design/animate, and report on these platforms, probably a marketer or an agency full or marketers. 
Hi,

The scope of digital marketing is only going to increase in the next 10 years with everyone getting aware of the didgital world and the connectivity it provides. The reach of this medium is enormous and more and more business and the products and services provided by them are coming to the digital platform.
Digital marketing will be more technical in the future. Current trend is marketing automation than typical digital marketing which is done by marketing executives mostly. In the future enegineers will be involved into the digital marketing.
Start with some grassroots content. Break it up into chunks. Video chunks, social media chunks, etc you’ve got to be consistent and it’s going to be trial and error. 
What does your company do? Who is their target customer? B2b or B2c?


Do you have a budget? If so, google adwords or social media ads would be a good first place to start, depending on your audience. Google Adwords certificate training or Facebook Blueprint is a good place to start, plenty of other free training on youtube.

I would take the Inbound marketing course on HubSpot, or anything they have on offer is a good foundation. 
Hire somebody. Or dedicate 10 hours a day for 6 months in learning. 

It's amazing how people underestimate marketing. You want to succeed but won't spend resources on advertising? Is like wanting to run a f1 car but not hire a pro pilot
Run a giveaway with a product/service that your target market would be into. Tie it into leadpages/upviral or use KingSumo to keep things simple. BUILD YOUR EMAIL LIST!
Social media is great source of marketing now a days. it always depends upon what's your target audience. whether you are dealing with b2b or b2c.
You could start out by creating a portfolio website, add a blog to make it richer as it will help you to get discovered by client searching online. Create backlink for your website. Promote your business on a social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram. Get yourself listed on the local listing website like Craigslist, yellow pages etc. Registered yourself with google and bing places to attract local traffic.

Hope it helps!
Hi, 

You can simultaneously work on Social media accounts to increase awareness. You can start an onsite blog to increase traffic on your website and if your company has a good marketing budget, you can go for paid ads- both online and offline. 

Hope this helps,

Thanks
Can Yo DM Me To link me to what this page is youre managing?

I have a lot of insights too offer you

&#x200B;
This contains 18 tips by the way 
Thank you for the great tips!!
UX TIPS: content need space to breathe. Start with some paragraph and headers formatting
The 21 she tips help me to drive traffic to my blog #shoutquick
Matt Tran isn't the one who teaches the course, its his friend Seth. Its a good course, but it won't exactly teach you marketing. It will give you the barebones, you'll need to go out and learn some other stuff yourself (read some books, watch some free courses on youtube, pick a few courses on digital marketing stuff on udemy or similar). He focusses mostly on PPC, SEO, and email marketing. The real value is in the "hack your own experience" section of the course where Seth gives you very actionable advice on finding a job. I think this the real value of the course; Seth is mostly focussed on teaching you how to get a job.

I wouldn't hesitate for a minute to recommend the course. I took the course a year ago and found a job within marketing within only a few months of finishing the course. After landing the job I actually went out of my way to write Seth a testimonial. 

Let me know if you have any questions, more than happy to answer them.
Took the course and it helped me get a job. Seth does teach you digital marketing but you have to follow his advice and be autodidactical. My advice, take the course, read through the marketing information he provides, take the additional courses he recommends and follow his guidance on building your portfolio of work. Also, look up a marketing foundational book or even a local class so you have your basics firmly ironed out. Since most issues you’ll run into in digital are already addressed by older marketers. A lot of things in digital is traditional marketing concepts renamed. Good luck! 
No. Does he have a background in digital marketing? 
No. I go in person after doing due diligence. I go in, ask the person who looks like the gate keeper a lot of questions with tons of jargon and they usually get me someone with decision making authority. My close ratio is way better that way. 

I grew up as a party promoter and street hustler before social media and google. Pounding the pavement is something that gave me an advantage then, it gives me an advantage now. If you can’t get one person to commit in person, how can you realistically get a conversion online?
I used to call law offices and show them how I could rank them as the highest DUI/divorce/etc in their area. Show them your current clients and tell them what you normally charge and then give them a deal. Expect to get rejected at least 50 times before even getting someone to listen to you. 
Research is important before you call. Don’t go calling without even knowing who the decision maker is. Look into their social media, news, PRs, etc that can help you into the conversation. The goal is to get to know them and how you can help before selling into them. You will get a lot of rejections but don’t be discouraged. 
Do research and have solid numbers that you will impact through association. Don't shoot something fancy. Give good numbers, look genuine, behave like a businessman. And if nothing, give them a deal for two weeks.

If you do your homework right, it will produce good numbers. 
I hire digital marketers, and the number one thing I look for is quantifiable mentions. “Increased social media followership by X% while also growing post engagement from Y% to Z% in 10 months.”  “Increased PPC average quality score from X to Y and created Z% new leads from paid sources, which netted an incremental $XYZ in revenue in the first year.”  

Those references tell me a lot: you’re a data-driven marketer, your resume isn’t all fluff, you probably have skills, and I have a lot I can ask you about in an interview that should net a real conversation where we can talk shop. 
Sell yourself. It's an art. You are selling yourself tk your interviewer. If you want to make big in life as a marketer , it starts from selling yourself.

Good luck
If you need help selling yourself you probably shouldn’t be in charge of a digital marketing campaign...
Please stay away from things like: I'm 80% skilled in content marketing, vs 90% in SEO. That shit screams of stupidity in my mind.   


The BEST stats to include on your resume are things like: I executed a content marketing optimisation, adding 20% content to an existing 10k words, which increased organic traffic by 60% in three months. This involved xyz. That's much better and as digital marketing is largely data-driven, it shows you're aware of key metrics and so on, too.   


Feel free to hit me up on DM if you'd like me to review your resume. I've seen hundreds of resumes and hired plenty of digital marketers, so know what stands out. 
Pivot tables and vlookups are exactly what you should be looking at in addition to general excel syntax. So basics like calculating a formula off of another and being able to read an existing formula to see what it is attached to. 

If you are still in school, see if you have access to Lynda.com for tutorials. Also, there are a lot of digital marketing excel blogs and tutorials out there. It’s extremely helpful to find a website or tutorial based on marketing because the examples will make more sense than accounting and you’ll understand the applicability quicker. 

What have you used excel for previously?
1. Make an example table with like 50 rows and columns for the following: date. Device type. Impressions. Clicks. Conversions. Source channel. Placement Id. Creative asset. Test (yes/no). Test version. 

From a table like that you would be able to do a lot. Pretty much a tiny version of an analyst role. Make a pivot table with a calculated field to tell me which channel for mobile has the highest ctr and which has the highest conversion rate. 

The most difficult stuff you might encounter based on something like this is an a/b test with a lift analysis. But I don't think you have enough time to master that before this test you have. Focus on funnel analytics, it's generalized and easy. Which creative asset had the highest ctr. Which device type had beat conversation rate. Stuff like that.
My guess that the test will be about Pivot Tables and VLOOKUP. Be also familiar with some other formulas such as: if, countif, sumif.

Other things that might come up are: calculating CTR, ROI, etc based on the data provided. 
It's like that on most other marketing subreddits (in my experience anyway). I've a few theories on why this is. Most prominent of which is that the majority of group members are consumers rather than contributors. We scour the Web for great ideas to implement in our day jobs rather than to share knowledge and best practice. Another reason, one more personal to me, is that I typically visit reddit for pleasure rather than business. So I'd visit sports or gaming or film and TV and only come across marketing if it shows up in the feed. I'd never visit it directly. 
I mod this sub, the other larger marketing related subs, and run our discord server. My experience, marketers don't spend a lot of time helping each other, maybe they're afraid to give out too much "special sauce" for free. ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯
>I joined this sub to get tips, helpful hints, and to maybe collaborate with other marketers

Seems you're part of your own problem. As others have mentioned, that's why we are here too, but notice none of us have said "I'm here to provide content." Reddit has a weird hate for marketers pushing their products/ideas. Even in this sub I've seen the instant downvotes for a lot of content that is provided. There seems to be a fine line for content between desired helpful information and spammy self-serving blogs.
[deleted]
That’s for sure a very good start. Also you can take some udacity courses or coursera ;)
Honestly what you have down is a pretty good start. However, you’re going to have to pit to use the knowledge you’ll gain from those courses and guides. What is the career you’re looking for anyway? Do you want to be a freelance digital marketer or in-house/agency marketer? 
Indemandcareer.com is a crash course in digital marketing. He also provides a ton of extra material and also even helps build your own website+ resume. It's what I did and I'm freelancing and also working as an assistant for an agency remotely.
[deleted]
Good points...but where is backlink building?
https://seodumb.com/20-proven-seo-tips-2018/
Consider mentioning that you're good in rush situations. I worked for PerfectlyPosh.com and something was always going wrong where they needed help NOW and someone who could put together information, graphics, etc. in a quick and dirty and PROFESSIONAL manner. So maybe mention that you're good in a pinch.
Hi,

I just finished my master in marketing and now want to get in to digital marketing. I have no experience in that field and the interviews i been to have basically rejected me because of that, even that i have a master in marketing from a good university.

Do u have any recommendations how i can get a job within digital marketing? Can i study it by myself? And what field within digital marketing exist and which one is the best for a long term and high salary?

Cheers 
Best GA courses are provided by Google called Google Analytics Academy. Link here: https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/ you can also get certified in GA once you complete the certification exam. 

I dont know of any good SEO online courses. However, i can recommend a few good beginner SEO guides:

- https://moz.com/beginners-guide-to-seo 
- https://blog.kissmetrics.com/seo-guide/ 
- http://searchengineland.com/guide/seo 

I hope this this helps, happy reading and learning :)


SEO is composed of clean, fast code, good information architecture and clear, valuable and easy to understand content.

There, I just saved you a few grand.
The way wix generates pages is very JavaScript heavy, making it difficult to index. 

If your client has an SEO/organic search focus they shouldn't be using Wix.

I would push very hard to get away from Wix, ignore the sunk costs.
Would highly recommend Wordpress over Wix if he is dependent upon organic search results to generate leads.
I would never use Wix if Wordpress is an option.

Hope that answers your question.
First, I would check out Neil Patel's blog.  Always great source which will give you a solid foundation before taking online classes.
Any specific area or just more generally? I know some in the music industry but they're specific to this 
It really depends on the niche and also on how targeted the traffic is, what stage of the buying-cycle they are etc.

If they came from social, for example, you might be best offering some freebies like an enticing how-to guide etc, to grow a mailing list. 

With a decent offer you should be able to get a good % to opt-in, then create a drip-feed email campaign that adds value for them, but mix-in some offers etc (only allow offers/promos in emails when you're sure you have built trust though!).

That way you get your visitors into a mailing list and can build trust up with them, should work better than trying to convert them from cold ;)

However, if they've landed on your site from, say, Adwords or Google organic, after searching for high buyer-intent keywords, then you MAY be able to aim for a monetary conversion. Even then though, try to build a list & entice them back for repeat custom ;)

Also, consider adding FB & Google remarketing tags, so you set cookies. Then you can set rules so that anyone who visits, but doesn't visit the thank-you page (for your freebie or post checkout if a sale conversion) can get retargeted to pull them back via FB or Google display network adverts.

Just my thoughts, but depends on the niche, source of target, and more, really :)
We would really need to know more about this theoretical product. How much does it cost, what's the lifetime value of a customer, how much competition does it have in the market, etc, etc.
You would need to be more specific about your site.

For a broad question like this...You could get something between 1 and 10 usd per 1000 visitors via Google Adsense.
E-mail lead capture. Then market affiliate products to your list.
Grant Cardone
Neil Patel
John Rampton
Chris Stoikos 
Ann Handley
Branden Hampton
Brian D Evans
Nathan Allen Pirtle
Mari Smith
Leonard Kim
Deep Patel
Pat Flynn
Amy Vernon
Jason Stone
Jon Youshaei
Chirag Kulkarni
Kimra Luna
Nicolas Cole
Dave Kirpan
John Hall
Pam Moore
Corner Blakley
Josh Stimlie 
Angie Schottmiller

Aeron Aurendroff
I'm a big fan of Jason Swenk. He gives actionable advice based on his years of growing digital agencies. If you're looking for more of an inspirational marketing guru, check out Gary Vaynerchuk. 🤘✨
Neil Patel (data-driven generalist), Gary Vaynerchuk (social media), Rand Fishkin (SEO).
can anyone share complete list with me pleasee?
Well, I think this is a power pack [list of Influencers](http://www.arpatech.com/blog/new-year-2017-top-marketing-influencers/) to follow in 2017. The best bit...there's a video of every influencer in it. Cheers. 
I'd add in Michael Brenner. Very sharp.
Hi people, with couple of friends I'm developing tool for **overall online appearance scoring** with identifying most important spots. Also with lots of engagement options for most important posts, comments, blogs, news etc. We are in very early stage, and we will appreciate any feedback from you. 

Thanks a lot, Gavrilo! 
[aper-inc.com](https://aper-inc.com/)
Drew Neissen and everyone he interviews. 
Thank you
Nyc
Nice thank you
Sounds Cool
Great video, loved the instagram example. The decision to make all the payed instagramers to post it on the same day is brilliant. I'd probaly think it's just too obvius that way but thanks for broadening my perspective
Very intresting.but i tried doing  influencer marketing for my business. Unfortunately failed. Now trying influencer marketinf for diff industry.i shouldn't fail in this.can you please help me. Is all mentioned are free r paid? If not is der any other platform
Very intresting.but i tried doing  influencer marketing for my business. Unfortunately failed. Now trying influencer marketinf for diff industry.i shouldn't fail in this.can you please help me. Is all mentioned are free r paid? If not is der any other platform
Very intresting.but i tried doing  influencer marketing for my business. Unfortunately failed. Now trying influencer marketinf for diff industry.i shouldn't fail in this.can you please help me. Is all mentioned are free r paid? If not is der any other platform
Robolike for Instagram.
Yeah, I'm in a similar position to you - I'd be lost without Moz, especially as they've just introduced some keyword research functionality, and seem to be constantly developing new stuff.

But there are free tools, or free versions of paid tools, that you can get away with using for smaller sites. You don't need the paid Screaming Frog, for example.

The one thing you might need is more time - and a lot more manual use of spreadsheets. The main benefit of paid tools is time saving and automation.
I've heard of MOZ but don't know a whole lot about it. Maybe you could share a little bit about how this has helped you for content marketing?
We use SiteCatalyst for analytics on web traffic and making projections to clients regarding their digital ad campaigns. 
I'm new to this subreddit, but I've used a ton of tools for a ton of different things. We used Nanigans for Facebook and mobile display ads for our enterprise level accounts, and it's amazing, but it's really expensive. At my current company, we use AdEspresso, which is great for managing ads and has some light logic/optimization features, but nothing like Nanigans.
MOZ Bar & Meltwater Engage/Fairhair

http://www.meltwater.com/za/blog/a-guide-to-social-media-monitoring-tools-in-2016/
Using images to Call to action buttons can also be another way of trying it differently or adds a bit of humour to otherwise serious content. 
Marketing automation tools like HubSpot provides for Customized CTA features in their product which actually boosts testing the CTAs. 
Does it work for long run?
Internal linking does help a bit, but not by much. You need to really build quality backlinks to you website to boost your rankings. On-page optimization can only get you so far.

PM me if you want to talk more about it
Others may differ, but in the UK I've found more success for me and my clients not with lead ads but creating an ad that directs to a landing page to capture lead information.  


When I've done A/B tests on this much higher conversion rates and lower CPL guiding to a landing page.  
Anecdotally perhaps as people want to *feel* like they are researching more/ trusting a brand more when visiting a website instead of just tapping and entering an email direct on Facebook.  


Also for B2B the quality of emails captured was lower as often if autofilled it was personal emails.

&#x200B;

In terms of asking for examples and the copy and the image, make it unique to YOU. Make it related to the pain points and struggles of your target audience and GIVE them something in exchange for their email. Don't expect loads of leads flooding in without giving them anything in return.  


In terms of examples, literally the next one you see from a marketing agency/agency owner/ business guru, actually stop and process their copy and video and hook of their offer, fill out the details and see what happens post-click in terms of their marketing to you.  


But even more than that Facebook will have 'tagged you as 'relevant' for those sort of ads. So you can keep seeing the good, the bad and the fucking terrible on your feed.
It all depends on industry and buyer's persona. 

Do a/b testing. Keep doing what is working and keep tweaking what is not performing well.

You will learn a lot by trail and errors.

Good luck
You may want to consider your audience as a whole.  Granted, Facebook has some of the best reach, it does not perform well in all markets.  Facebook tends to do much much better on a b2c then b2b as a side note. Business consumers tend to research and compare a lot more; With that said certain b2b services do very well.  I would investigate the audiences tab and search specific interests of your b2b potential prospects and make sure there is enough interest on the platform for it.  

&#x200B;

If you are having trouble converting leads, another route is foregoing direct page ads, building a community around the interests, creating a page likes campaign, then inviting those likes to join your community.  Then run promotions within the group.  You simply just need to build the community following first.  With the new changes to Facebook recently, this is probably one of the best routes to go at the moment.

&#x200B;

Or you can select a platform specifically for b2b like linkedin.  hope this helps you with your future marketing company.  

&#x200B;

As for design, you have to base this once again on the audience you want to show the ad to.  Do the psychological research on these interest groups and find out what that interest group is willing to click on.  Example: Interests groups related to coupons react really well to big buttons on the ad with price off or discount percentage with words like "limited time", "only while supplies last" with the product image in the background.  Hiring good designers is key to create engaging ads.
If you promote great content to the right audience, sure.
Yes, it can.

Not only you can earn links by promoting your blog post, but also detect broken links on other relevant websites and offer them a link on your website they can replace it to; offer your expert opinion on a subject matter of someone’s blog posts and they can link back to you, and many other tactics.

The only important thing is that you need to do it the right way, be relevant and don’t spam.
If you have high quality content and you are reaching out to people who have high authority blogs. Then yeah its possible.

Its all about the approach. You need to offer them something that improves the value of their blog post.
they will most likely ask to see examples of content. Make sure the content you show them is 100%, relevant to the publication and not promotional.
ex-journalist here:

Only thing you need is curiosity.  

Printed media 

1. be fascinated not only for words but also for design: take some Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign courses, read some graphic design books to get better eye for beautiful things. 
2. be curious why printed newspapers and magazines live, thrive and get above the water (so advertising, look at it, look at copy and look at design)
3. be interested how printed magazines sold themselves on social media -(so social media, design, mass mailing because you get a lot of mailing campaign mails), through online campaigns, through mail campaigns... And what if I tell you, you can automate that mailing campain - if I register and visit few times, I may get mail to complete offer for subscription... And here we go to the world of online.

Online media

1. be curious for design - look at some blogs (google it) how good web design looks like. 
2. look for interesting media, look for successful newspapers, look for awful bad conspiracy shit (you need to know how bad job looks like)
3. be curious how they work - make your own blog (or work in some media), just start some quick easy wordpress blog, how to publish something, how to promote it on social media, how to make mass mailing for subscribers, how to use services to do that... then you definitely get interested in web development. 
4. be interested in web dev - you neeed to know what is HTML, CSS, JS and some content management system (for example wordpress). So do some cheap good rated courses on Udemy. Some of the Web Development... It is about 12 dollars on Udemy or Free on YouTube with some time spent on searching. You need learn how to code web because you want to have nice mass mails. After that maybe some PHP and databases because you have your own blog, yeah? You dont need to be mega coder but imagine you work for e-shop (or you have one).
5. after that - you need to know if it is worth it, yeah? So analyze it, yeah? How much visitor you have on your blog - so google academy, google analytics... SEO basics.
6. You have some own website... that is good for presenting yourself. Now start to learn thinking. Problem solving is necessary technique to master. Javascript could help. You will also encounter in your digital marketing world... Impression pixels (often gave by advertising agency along with banner to websites) are javascript codes. 

&#x200B;

Dont do broad tutorials like: "Digital Marketing, master everything and be mega hero". No good. It is all about curiosity. 

You need tools to create, to measure and to solve problems (this should be your brain). Learn them. 

Curiosity produce thinking and critical thinking.

&#x200B;

Maybe, you as psychology degree, can start a blog about mental well-being and mental health and burnout and all that shit and apply all above to that. Make it your project. And after that, present it to your future employer - here, I did it all by myself, lots of digital marketing had to be done.
Digital marketing is like an ocean. You need to chose what niche you will be picking up.

Since you like writing, I would suggest content writing as this will come naturally to you. 

Also, blog post, product description, email marketing, headlines for adwords etc. These all stem our from having a good command over how to play the game with user's mind. 

Good luck! 

Ps- It takes a while to develop a niche. It took me 3 years. So, don't be faZed. To earn by the time you become world class in a particular niche, you might be needing to learn basics of other form of digital marketing.
Hi!

A translator here. Digital Marketing really has A TON of paths: data analysis, content marketing, SEO, SEM, E-mail marketing, Automation, Social Media... The good thing about that is that it's really easy to jump between career paths (even if you studied journalism and want to specialize in data), so you should get the basics on everything, know which path do you like the most and then apply for an internship or start working towards that goal.

I started with Google's Digital Marketing Course, then jumped straight to Ads and Analytics (these two are CRUCIAL). Then I created a wordpress webpage just to mess around and experiment with stuff. Read blogs, study some articles, watch videos and learn, learn, learn. When you feel you are ready, try to jump straight into an internship, and you will be on your path to really become a digital marketer.

Reddit has helped me a lot and has a ton of info about career paths, but if you need some resources, PM me and I will link you some :p
Content Marketing is something that you might like doing, you can even look into social media management as well. To take it further, you can learn website management and be in charge of a website. I think the creative part of social digital marketing is saturated and very competitive. The money is in tech, analytics, and product marketing. Location also plays a factor.
Hello,

Digital marketing is a small term with deep sense. It is a bunch of activities where you need to choose either one or many of them according to your skills and interest. There is a lot of work likes blogging,  SEO activities, Affiliate marketing, Email marketing, website designing using wordpress like applications, and so on. But I personally suggest you to choose either **Blogging** or Affiliate marketing. Blogging is the term we all are familiar with but I put some light on **Affiliate marketing** \- a process of earning commission by promoting other people's product on your own blog or website.  It all depends on your own interest of work, so choose any one of them and start your new destiny.
Google digital garage then just learn by doing!
Start your own website. It's really inexpensive to make a simple blog-style site. You can set up and add Google Analytics and search console for free. Social media accounts are all free, so you can create those to drive traffic to your site. Basically, you create a digital publication and learn about driving traffic and analyzing traffic in a way that is 100% hands-on and not expensive. If you want to put small investments into Google Ads, then that's another way to drive traffic and learn about ad creation.
Google Ad Words certificate is free and a good introduction to concepts
Udemy has some great classes! Lots of free guides/Youtube tutorials out there.
There are a bunch of classes for paid advertising. Maybe you can score some discount codes or free trials?
You can take free or paid course from udemy. Or you can create simple blog site and can promote it through SEO and PPC. There are lot of PPC tutorial available on YouTube. You can find lot of information about PPC through Google search. There are lot of site that provide information about SEO and PPC like searchengineland.
Any history of results to compare to?
What’s the objective - traffic, conversions, reach?
Brand guidelines
Who are their target customers?
What do they like, how do they talk, creative guidelines.

Just a few thoughts.
Be aware that asking your client what they want is different than asking "what business problem do you need solved?" 

For example, a client who insisted they needed to get more website traffic actually needed to tweak the code on their shopping cart. They had the right amount of traffic but their website was impossible to use.  

Clients who are not marketing experts can accurately tell you the results they want, and need your help in figuring out how to achieve those results.
Something to think about. What is it you want from these potential fans/community?

Do you want more people to listen to your music?

Do you want more people to enjoy your music?

Do you want them to buy your music?

Do you want your music to used more?

Figuring out what you want from the incoming people will help figure out where to look and how to bring them in.
Build a quality blog/site  create a  separate Facebook page and join groups that share your interests, create a YouTube channel and add daily content which you should already have. In my view post a video every day for at least 3 weeks. So 21 videos.  Add all the other social network platforms. Get familiar with what your other people in your market are  doing and  copy there strategies (not their work) in your style. Spend a few weeks on each platform one at a time, that will get you more confident and you will soon see by testing what works and what doesn't. 

Making genuine connections is easy, probably the easiest way would be to be active in groups or forums in your field. and then all you have to do is be genuine. Worst mistake in my opinion would be to try and be someone you are not that just attracts the wrong audience... Focus should be on branding yourself as you are the product.

Hope that helps
You might read some books on networking. A lot of them were written before digital marketing became a thing but the concepts are the same, if the execution is a bit different. 

What is your goal? You want fans, why? What is your final product that you are selling? 

FWIW one man musician operations aren't that unusual, with loopers and/or backing tracks you could certainly do something live. There are a ton of opportunities for amateur musicians to play so to eliminate that as an avenue of developing a reputation or following seems pretty short-sighted, to me. Those events cost you nothing but your time.
First thing is to build social media pages for your work. This could just be your personal account or you have separate "artist" accounts. Post quality content and post it often. For example, if you have a gig somewhere and need to fill seats you can run local Facebook Ads with an offer maybe from the place you're playing at. If you are at a bar headline could be: 
GREAT MUSIC GREAT DRINKS
Come in and watch me play at ______ and receive a $10 drink voucher
(Not the best thing but an example)
The idea of the offer is to make it pretty big so people actually want it. That's all in the people that own the event space.
I would find someone on youtube who made it big but had  to start from nothing - there is lots of them. Study their journey then use it as a guideline. I can sit here and write a 3000 word essay from a technical point of view why this is good advance but I cant do that. chances are youre not the first one or last one to do this so learn from those who have done it and honestly- copy them until youre comfortable branching off and developing youre own technique. I would research youtube heavily and make a spreadsheet of your findings. I could give more technical answer but its not gonna help you.

&#x200B;

Good source on modeling business/youtube channel: Tim Ferris
I’d go to the IT or CS route then get an MBA for the business skills.
Most of the digital marketing stuff isn’t taught at university anyways, you need to learn in the job or from online courses/certifications
Keep your major and learn / read as much as you can about digital marketing. 

Here's my advice (I literally did this) - create a website and learn SEO, Social Media and Email. Create a website about something you're interested in and write content (or pay someone), get relevant graphics (learn or pay someone) and get the site to rank.

When you graduate - show your project to employers. It will be enough to land you a job. I've been working on side hustles since College and was able to land a pretty sweet gig in NYC right after graduation. FYI, I also majored in Comp Sci and had an internship as a front-end developer.
No, you don’t have to switch your major. 

I was a CS major student back in the day, and got my first job as a marketing specialist in digital marketing, and moved to project management later. 

I’m not sure about your situation, but for me, I’m a Chinese and studied in the US, and then went back to China. My first company hired me simply bc I’m good at English, and play a lot of games. (I’m working in the mobile game industry) 

You don’t really learn digital marketing in school, so the major isn’t that important. In my company, the marketing department has to kinds of jobs. One is play with Facebook and/or google adwords accounts, which require experiences which you can get once you start your job. The other one is more like project management, you need to communicate with ppl a lot, and need to know all the things relate to digital marketing and  the project you are working on. 

From my experience, ppl majoring in CS, math and statistics may even have an advantage sometime. 

I’m not sure if I answers your question. Can me if you want to know more.
Digital marketing has become far easier in the last 5 years, from when I started you 100% needed to understand coding. These days you only need a digital marketing platform. 

The good ones, and there are several options give you all the tools and training you need. Not overly expensive. The market is wide open with every local business crying out   for help. 

They have no idea how to sort out hosting, build a site sort out ssl certificates and everything else. Most of them are not advertising correctly, not targeting there visitors not building subscriber lists. The list goes on...
I can share with you some thoughts.

I mayors in marketing and just got my first full-time job in digital marketing a month ago for a Ecommerce startup. For starters, knowledge in CS and statistics help alot in number-crunching and differentiating good and bad KPIs in FB business, GA, Google ads. The last digital marketer before me was in such sense and her previous campaigns was efficient with many metrics that she tested and compared. 

What she lacks or at least 
need improving is layering/segmenting customers targeting with regards to both behavioral psychology and lacks of product knowledge. For your case, a good throughout read on some core marketing books and applications should helps imagining the bigger picture when there is so much more than just data. But in the end, data expertise will be the cross point for business scaling and implementing automation. Just my 2cents, I wish I mayored in CS.
I have been doing paid search for 4 years. Research this carefully before you choose this career path. If you go work for an agency (which is where most of the work is) you may have a heavy workload, long nights, terrible employers, bad benefits, bad pay etc. You are not going to make good money unless you become a director $100k+ or somehow figure out how to make a % of the client's media spend.

Doing SEO is a precarious situation because it's difficult to prove the worth of SEO unlike with paid search.

Paid search is difficult because you're dealing with other people's money. So they want to see a really good return on their investment while combating so many issues like rising cpcs.

My colleagues who do programmatic think it's difficult getting quick decisions, all the digital assets quickly and ever shifting demands.

Look into all the different types of coding jobs because they make way more than digital marketers without being a manger. If you really think digital marketing is interesting develop that on the side.
 Yes
Look into A/B testing. I minored in CS and majored in a humanities/social psychology thing.

Front end coding/tracking/test setup is light work in the coding world, but combining it with marketing knowledge and tactics can make it a powerful hybrid roll.

Downside is that many jobs are at agencies, and not all companies actively test.

Just a thought. It is how I salvaged a really weird life path, lol.
Check out **RankdSEO.com** **backlink database**. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of high-authority websites.

I use it myself. Gave Access to my VA, and he's building links for me based on the guides.
Selfgrowth.com
There are lot of sites that have high DA and provide dofollow backlinks. I advice you just search it on Google and you will find lot of site matching your preferred criteria.
I would investigate reputable agencies near you, do some solid research. Then either find the decision makers and add / flick them a message on linkedin, call them or just show up to their office!
There should be jobs out there which don’t require experience to start entry level.
Call around town and see if any agencies near you would take on an intern. There tend not to be a ton of internships in this industry but they are out there and most will pay you at least a small stipend. 
If you have experience, that is more easy to find an agency. It's  need to recruit people with some skills with mathematics, Excel, technology, customer service, and more. I recommend you that practice it from now. Use your own campaigns.
Go to upwork, you might get some paid gigs
I am a digital marketer in LA. Recently moved here from Austin. I work with the big film and tv studios and its big business. Its good work.
I was just looking at a Marketing Manager job in LA lol. If you are looking for a hot job at a tech company I would say go for it. I’m in the Bay Area myself 
I work remotely for a company based in LA. I think that’s been the best of both worlds for me
job opportunity? the COL is too high though and the place is a hellhole of degeneracy. if you value your soul, stay away
A working marketer looking to move. Remotely consulting for a firm at the moment. 
Thanks for the replies, everyone. I need to convince my manager why there’s pros for me to move to our offices in LA. Anything beneficial? 
***Job opportunity****? Although the call is too high it is also good on everything else*
In the paid course you can actually setup the ads campaigns if your own. 
Keep in mind that 90% of such courses are nothing but regurgitated basics from the original sources. True experts also do offer paid courses which usually cost much more but contain useful well-structured tips and a lot of practice. I suggest completing courses by Google first and then keeping an eye on real pros (not random $50 courses) who share info for free. Before paying for any course conduct a research (ask people for real reviews, ) and take another month to decide.
Oh fuck yes - can't speak for the google side, but Facebook Blueprint basically gives you an understanding of how their ads work, it doesn't actually teach you how to run good ads that will create ROI.  


Forget udemy - pay proper money for a proper course from someone who is currently doing it well (i.e Cat Howell, Tim Burd...)

&#x200B;
Depends on the agency. In some agencies, a marketing co-ordinator is little more than an admin assistant that schedules tasks and ensures follow ups. In other agencies you may be expected to be very hands on with the work. It will depend on what kind of team you're working with. 

I think most importantly you have agency experience - that's the distinction that sets you apart from an office admin. You would have some understanding of the agency workflow and how to go about looking after campaigns, how the creative and content generation process works, etc. 

If I was employing a marketing co-ordinator, I would just want someone who seems organised, is prepared to learn and can juggle tasks, and also won't just sit there waiting for something to do but will chase clients up and keep things moving. Also someone who presents well and seems like they could hold their own in front of clients. 

Definitely get the certs, they're easy and (in my opinion) more valuable to a potential employer at this level than a marketing degree. 

In short, pay attention to the job specs and stress your ability to manage workloads and display excellent personal presentation, client-facing skills and working with a team. A marketing co-ordinator type role is a good entry-level role for someone who wants to go into digital and wear a number of different hats. 

I cut my teeth being a co-ordinator. It's a good entry level role. You can go for big agencies where it will be more gruelling and competitive but possibly teach you at a higher level, or you can go for small agencies and learn how to do lots of different types of marketing at once.
I started from a super technical area of digital marketing which is PPC and SEO - and later on i added more design and web development. Pretend that tomorrow you have your own business and you need to get started - what would llearn first? I would look into Web Dev on wordpress - templates - CSS HTMl - then get Certified by Google in Search and Analytics. Then go to [MOZ.com](https://MOZ.com) and read the entire PDF on SEO.  After that I would get into sales funnels and email marketing. The last thing I would do is social media marketing and content marketing. But all digital marketing is is creating costumer journeys so you can get their email and build an emailing list so you can monetize it.
You could consider keeping with the content side and getting in via enterprise content management as well. Look at something like Adobe Experience Manager and focus on helping to drive individualized content in the customer journey...

Just a thought on how to leverage you existing experience.
I think Graphic Design is a part of Digital Marketing. Without the assets (ad images, landing pages, web design), Digital Marketing will not yield results.
You can use your "creative" aspect to market yourself in Digital Marketing. Show them examples of your work and the results the business achieved.
Want a job? Lol!
Where can we see your portfolio?
ManageWP, MainWP or infiniteWP, they are all freemium apps that can do the job

&#x200B;
You're looking for an "Uptime Monitor".

There are lots of services with free plans (with 10 min or 5 min intervals) and restrictions on number of pages. A quick google of that phrase will bring up services you can evaluate.
If your sites have Good Analytics...you can setup alerts for when traffic drops as one way to monitor things.
Statuscake should work well
I use UptimeRobot on the web. Has a free and paid version.
We use ManageWP and we like it a lot!
Thanks all, I see you all recommending ManageWP. I am going with it. 
ManageWP is dirt cheap for all it does. Highly highly recommend. Non intrusive, no headaches, just runs in the background and you don’t have to worry about it (until you need it). 
Not counting recreational activities (checking personal social media, watching TV, etc?  Around 5-9 hours a day. 

I’m not nearly as good at taking eye breaks as I should be, but I get up and walk around for ten minutes or so every couple of hours.
Expect to be exhausted while your health declines at an ever increasing rate.
I don't have to do much graphic work now so I have nightshift enabled all the time, just enough to caught the blue, and I'm constantly adjusting brightness depending on what I'm looking at (on a laptop) and I feel that for me, it's made a huge difference in eye strain. 
Wow! That question really made me think. At least 12 hours including my smartphone. 
All day, every day. Other than meetings (average of 2 hours / day) all my work is done on a laptop. We are also paperless, so no trips to the printer.

Then I go home and watch sports / movies / play games. 

FWIW, I’ve never experienced eye fatigue or any symptom linked to staring at screens all day. Just keep your screen brightness in the sweet spot and use night shift on your devices to limit your nighttime exposure to blue light.

 I also do regular exercises to keep my posture in good shape since it’s nearly impossible for me to sit properly all day (I’m a fidgeter).
Plenty of time to watch porn!
I use a standing desk at work 9-5 at an agency. It makes it easy to step away and having spent 40 hours a week for years sitting and staring at a screen, I can confidently say standing makes a huge difference.
At a startup launching a new platform so about 50-60?
more than 15hours  daily

Read a book for 1 hour.

Watch Gary vee videos for 30mins 

and whatever is left.....Sleeping. :)
From around 8am through to about 11-12pm. Probably 4-5 hours away from the computer during that time.

So an average of 10 hours a day roughly.
On average probably 4 hours a day, the rest are meetings.
Wear blue light blocking glasses. Problem almost entirely solved
50
at least 6 to 7. I try to take breaks for walking and lunch for sure
I would just use a spreadsheet, seems the quickest and less cumbersome solution.
I use a spreadsheet every week to show my team
Our Marketing analytics. I just can pull up a few weeks worth of data and apply to there ... 
Oh how we all would love data back from the platforms you listed...

Unfortunately when running Facebook ads driving to iTunes, Amazon, and Google you lose the ability to track users. These platforms are what are called “walled gardens” and do not allow for any tracking from visitors of ads outside of their own ads. 

If you would like to attribute conversions (music sales) on iTunes, Amazon, and Google the ads would to be ran through their systems. I’m not sure if each platform has the option to run ads driving album sales as I personally have not executed a campaign like this. 

As you mentioned users typically won’t buy and download a zip file from your webpage, but they may click links on your site driving to the music marketplaces. This may not be the best route as users would need to be served an ad. The user could click your ad called post-click (PC) brining them to your page or return to your site after viewing an ad called post-view (PV). They then would click the marketplace link on your site. Your measurement could be link clicks from your page driven by advertising to the marketplace. The biggest downsides are that you are asking users to complete several actions before a conversion, generally its best to remove extra steps to convert. In addition you won’t be able to understand how many people paid for the music after clicking the marketplace link. 

You could look at increases of music sales over time when you start advertising. Many factors could be involved in sales increases and decreases over time and won’t be as a result of only advertising. 
Create your own Business Manager and request admin access to that page. From what I know it doesn't matter if it's connected to another Business Manager.

You shouldn't ever be doing work in someone else's business manager; they can take your work and kick you out.
I feel you!   
What clients need to understand that they approached someone in the first place is because they had a problem, now if they are not ready to break few rules and take calculated risks, then what's the purpose? They need to give some space and CREATIVE FREEDOM  to the people they hired. Only then you can make the most out of what you are investing in.   
P.S. I need to let this out somewhere too and your post was a trigger. 
That’s up to the customer. It’s all relative.
$2500 for a website seems very cheap. 
I agree that it’s all relative. Consider the client’s financial capacity and their business profitability after the website is done. Will the business grow exponentially after the website is launched?
Well it depends on the site and what CMS you use. If you are building a Wix site, yeah that's unreasonable. If it's a Wordpress site, that's on par for a smaller site. Some people can knock out a site in under 20 hours. 
That's actually quite a deal depending on what you're doing.
It depends on the size of business/amount of work. A blog set up for an amateur photographer might be a few hundred bucks. A website for a very large business would be very way beyond the $2K mark, especially if they are hiring writers to write copy for hundreds of pages and doing SEO work. I know those are two extremes and you likely fall into neither, but I think you have a fair quote. 
Honestly, pricing is up to you and how your client perceives your value. If you can justify your pay package then its is never too much. It's definitely dependent on each client and how much they are willing to pay. Though you must be able to deliver the value that you have promised for the client's satisfaction. How you handle yourself will determine referrals and your value. So its never too much as long as you can justify it. A luxury good is lucrative due to its high demand and high price. If you fix yourself to a price you are only worth that much. You should get more expensive as you offer more. Maybe you can offer a price range, but ALWAYS be 100% open to negotiations.
It depends on the work and what you charge your time out at. 

We have lots of web dev agency where we are based with different pricing the most expensive start at 4K and turn down work at anything less but they fully bespoke everything other company’s will do a theme and quick job from £99 

We sit at around £2000+ per website but do a mix of bespoke and theme based work depending on the budget. 

The monthly sound expensive to me. What are you doing for that? 

It’s strange for the monthly to be that high when the build is so low. 
No need to learn copywriting. I usually test a few options, see what works best and spin off variations of the top performing ad. There's tons of articles about what works well, but it will really depend what you are selling. Include a sale/offer if you have one, or try asking a question in your headline. You can also try responsive ads, which Google will automatically optimize for you. Lots of options, you just gotta go for it and start testing. 
Im my great at copywriting. I just pull up the competitors' ads and take ideas from there. I can make copy better, but can't write from scratch. 
In a sense - no. But there is a difference between writing for google ads and writing for your customer to buy, so it's a good skill to have. Ideally you'd have a dedicated copywriter for the purpose of marketing, but if you have to do it all, yes it helps.
No need to learn copywriting, Just make sure you create all the variations, exp: spin off the H1, H2, and H3 and create some new ads.nobody knows which one works better, Just make the campaign run. after a while, google stats shows you which one performs better than the others.

Use manual CPC bidding if you have a limited budget and set google conversion tracking tag on your site, it will help you amend your campaign easily.

Do some keywords research and use the popular phrases in your ads. this could help you increase your ad relevancy and consequently your quality score will raise and your ad rank will improve.

Add some extension to your ads, Callout, and Sitelink would be perfect.

Always watch out the  Auction Insight, do know about your competitors.
To put it into context, my DSA campaigns outperform any of my other TCPA campaigns in terms of CR, and CTR. 

All you got to do is make sure the search term matches the copy/landing page. 
Get a basic grasp, understand what competitors and similar businesses do then test and learn
Yes, it's apart of the skillset a marketer has. Some of these comments saying no, is like saying no, understanding boxing principles and tactics don't help in MMA. Of course, though you want to see what works from competitors and test. However, understanding principles within copywriting will help you as a marketer as you'll be able to utilize persuasion to entice potential consumers to buy. 
You don't have to but copy writing principles do help your ad stand out a little
No needs, it's depending
No, not really.

What you might need to learn is to create many ad copies in a limited amount of time.

Nowadays, with the new google responsive ads, you can insert multiple headlines and descriptions. 

If you really want to dive deeper, then you should consider learning behavioral science and how it was used by marketing people. For some reason it still works.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
just read through google entire help section. learn the beast. Writing the ads is the easy part. Dealing with adwords system is the pain in the ass. After you learn it though it is so easy. picking the right keywords is critical . Forget writing the ads that basically means nothing. The entire rest of adwords you need to learn or your doomed. 
stop by the next chamber of commerce meeting in your area, speak to some of the business owners about their digital marketing.  maybe it could lead to a few projects depending on their needs
Try UpWork and read about how to make your pitch sing. Don't think that pricing yourself cheaper is the smartest way to do it. People are willing to pay lots more for quality. 
ProTip: Find who the requestor is, connect on LinkedIn, and call their company via the phone. 

Has helped me land tons of engagements. 
LinkedIn ProFinder
I want to mention in case you forget, make sure your current agency doesn’t view it as a conflict of interest. You don’t want to ruin a great thing for some side money.

If you guys have an HR department maybe you can talk to them, but going to your boss/manager before speaking to HR is probably a better approach.
The big ones I've used are Shopify, Woocommerce and Magento. Shopify would be the easiest one to set up however you have to pay $29/month for the most basic package. Woocommerce is good if you're familiar with WordPress while Magento takes a bit more technical knowledge to get running but is perhaps the most customisable of the 3. Heard good things about Prestashop but can't comment on it's functionality
Somehow choose the best CMS platform is difficult because every CMS having its own limitation and requires expertise. There are many platforms are available but only few the best that are following: 

**BigCommerce**

BigCommerce is cloud-based CMS platform which is user-friendly and allow to build beautiful, responsive web store without any design knowledge. You can get 15 days of Free trial from BC. 

* Standard –- $29.95/month 
* Plus –- $79.95/month 
* Pro –-Starting at $249.95/month

**Volusion**

Volusion is another best e-Commerce CMS platform that provides cloud-based solution to users. Volusion has come up with many features like “deal of day” Amazon and eBay integration that will help to retain customers and build brands.  You can get 14 days of Free trial from BC. 

* Mini – $15 per month 
* Plus – $35 per month 
* Pro – $75 per month 
* Premium – $135 per month

**Magento**

Magento is one of the best eCommerce CMS in web development industry. Magento is highly-scalable and provides full control over developing the store with splendid add-ons and extensions. 

* Magento Pricing – Free Community Edition

**OpenCart**

OpenCart is a light weight CMS platform for eCommerce, which is free for use and upgrade. OpenCart is best option for newbie that have some basic knowledge and experience in web designing and development. OpenCart features unlimited categories, products, and manufacturers, Multilingual, PCI Compliant, more than 20 payment gateways, reporting and more.

* OpenCart Pricing – Free

**WooCommerce**

WooCommerce is very popular WordPress plugin for developing an eCommerce store/website on the WordPress platform. The plugin is easy to install and boasts almost all the features one can expect from an open-source CMS. 

* WooCommerce Pricing – Free

&#x200B;
Are you asking for a CMS or an ecommerce platform? They're not the same thing, despite the functions overlapping sometimes.

If you want a good, functional, and cheap CMS, then Hubspot is pretty good. I use the free version for my small business.

If you're looking for an ecommerce platform, then WordPress with Woocommerce is the best bang for your buck.

Shopify is garbage; I'm not sure why so many people use it. I generally avoid companies that offer "done for you" solutions.
Like many people have said, it depends. When I am helping a brand add e-commerce to their channels here are some of the things we use to determine the best technology fit:

How many products will you have?

How many options/variations can a product have?

How are you going to organize your store?

How many categories are you going to have?

Are you planning on using paid media to drive traffic at any time in the near future?

How many purchases do you expect in a week?

How much traffic do you get/expect in a week?

What advanced e-commerce tools do you want to use (suggested products, cart abandonment recovery etc.)?

What technology is your business on that your e-commerce needs to integrate with?

&#x200B;

Once you answer these questions you can look at the features and offerings of e-commerce platforms and choose which one fits best with what you are looking to do.

&#x200B;
Shopify is good and easy.
Everyone is listing ecommerce platforms instead of CMS platforms. Ecommerce platforms should only handle the product catalog, on-site search, and checkout functions.

WordPress is probably the best value CMS for clients that can’t afford expensive licensing.
**Why is engagement so low compared to their followers?**  
From my understanding, Facebook is largely pay-to-play these days. Don't get me wrong, there are some companies that have exceedingly loyal followers that actively seek out and engage with their content. However, it has become harder and harder for business's to have their content be organically visible. Pages with 100k+ followers often get 1-4 likes because no one even sees their content due to the FB algorithm. 

As for Instagram, a lot of their followers may be bots, intentional or not. Content is held to a higher standard on Instagram, as companies have to compete with people who share high-value content without the baggage of a sales agenda. 

**How to create engaging content?**  
A good start is by scoping out winning strategies by the leaders in both your industry and the platform itself, and adopting those ideas. You can't tell people what to like, you have to create content they WANT to see. Your goal is to guide people to develop an interest and affinity to your brand, and then those people will convert to paying customers. 

**Does social media affect sales?**  
Yes, if a company goes all in. Social media is a requirement for most companies in a PR and customer-service standpoint. But social-media requires a lot of work and follow-through engagement to affect sales, and some businesses are better suited for social-media sales strategies. Think food, outdoor activities, fashion, aka anything visual with emotional appeal. 
I'm interested in this too, I wish I knew the answer! 

I'm currently launching a new business and all of my competitors with 1000s of followers post articles daily on social media - to me they look high quality and relevant to our target audience. But they get fuck all engagement, a bare handful of likes, no comments, minimal shares. I don't get it.
Simple: Hire a proper sales team, forego inefficient marketing mediums in industries where it does not provide any real value. Brand equity comes from engagement with the brand, regardless of medium.
To find that out, analyzing the channels which are converting most people can help. As far as the low engagement of social media is concerned, are all those likes/followers organic? Also, does the brand engage with the followers? Third, does the brand engage with others' content?
No software does everything and even if you found one, it would be a jack and jill of all trades. Meaning it does not do any one thing very well. You can easily use [Supermetrics](https://affiliate.supermetrics.com/1026.html) or Google Data Studio for reporting. Then [Unbounce](https://unbounce.grsm.io/DuaneBrown) for building your landing pages.
I think you might want to check Hubspot.
If they don’t shoot it themselves and if their brands are very visual, I would source a local production company to do the photos according to a breif. 
I use a mix. However I say I rely 50%-80% on UGC on Instagram and post that photo across channels. You’ll also get a follower out of it too typically. 
I havr the same question, please help
It depends on the client and your services I suppose. I mostly work with clients that have great pictures already that they can share with me. You can definitely have client send you a box of a few products they want your services for though. 
What's your customers niche? Need to know this to best help you
Have clients give you access to their photos by zip or dropbox link
There are many alternative solution for your digital marketing campaigns. Currently I using SEMRush and found it better than other SEO Marketing Software. 

1. Ahrefs 
2. HubSpot 
3. SimilarWeb 
4. Moz Pro 
5. SpyFu 
SEMRush is good. I like it. 

I’m running with the Ahrefs trial right now. I like their approach to keyword research with comparing long tails with Parent keywords and how likely you are to rank for your long tail if you target your parent kw. I also like Ahrefs banklink estimator. It’s nice for noobs. 
It depends on what you want to use it for. If you need it for keyword research, SEO studies, keyword position tracking, SEO competitor data, Adwords competitor data, graphic design & editing, social media tracking and posting, and automated reports, brand monitoring, then Semrush is fantastic. 
SEMrush is one good tool you can have but also you can try for Ahrefs, SimilarWeb, Moz Pro, Buzzsumo. these tools I have tried and even they are good to have for Digital Marketing.
Ahrefs is great as well I think you can get a week or two of free trial for Ahrefs as well as SEM rush.
I love it. It's my go-to tool for competitive research and generating ad ideas. 
I’d like to know this. I’m trying to bring this to my agency in the US and wondering what levers they are pulling for me 
Dynamic creatives (DCO)
Private marketplaces
App reengagement
What kind of display? $2-5CPM for low quality. Up to $13 for retargeting. Pre roll is higher.

CTV and ATV can hit $45-55 CPM

So basically $2-55 CPM
If you're handy with Linux and scripting, checkout InstaPy.
Definitely don’t do it. Follower count doesn’t even matter anymore, what matters is your engagement rate. Buying followers is a waste of money and will completely skew the metrics that matter. Just make sure you are using a proper hashtag strategy and post great quality content and the followers will come.
I have tried several different instagram bots and services. The one that best for me is BigBangram.com, service with auto likes and followers, free proxy, scheduled posting, multiple accounts adn so on. Of course i can't use them all, but it nice to have some extra stuff included. This service was best solution for my instgram acc.
Hootsuit is also good for posting and managing multiple accounts. 
I am using a follow/unfollow bot for Instagram free (a cracked version). It also allows you to do others tasks but those are the main functions I've been using. It's called Instadub Pro
Honestly, my blunt answer would be, "They both have people on them, who do you want to sell to?"

Just selling "toothpaste" to anyone who might want it will drive you broke quickly.  Figure out a target audience, figure out a USP, opportunities for behaviour change, potential attitude changes...

Once you've figured that out, demographics (e.g. audience size metrics you can estimate on each channel) might tell you which one is better.

Good luck - love my black toothpaste...
Your question is: pull  or push marketing?
Start with Google ads for search terms really lower funnel, find out what converts and do some expanding and testing. Then branch out with some remarketing, Facebook and Display once you have some traffic from search ads. 

Optimise your website during this 'low hanging fruit' phase also, make sure its easy for people to convert.

Then figure out what you can about your customers and expand to find similar audiences with Facebook and Google display ads.


That would be my strategy anyway.
I'd really recommend you don't spread your budget too thin trying to do a lot at once, if you have small budgets keep it really focused as a lot of bidding algorithms and even manual optimisation needs data to perform so focus on one thing to start with. 
Both, plus Bing, plus Instagram, plus display, retargeting for all of the above plus shopping campaigns. 
Google Display Ads, YouTube Marketing would be sufficient to start with. 

The question is, what are your conversion points \[website, GMB, etc)?  
Both worth testing. What about Amazon? 
both
You may have a tough time with advertising low-cost products on either of those platforms.   
On either platform, you will end up paying at least $.50 per click, if not substantially more. With the average e-commerce conversion rate for paid search being 3.75% this means you will be acquiring new customers at a cost of $12.50 per purchase.
I suspect that such a sub-reddit will be filled with ads

&#x200B;

Why not build a client base the old fashioned way?  Case studies

  
That's right-work on your own SUCCESSFUL projects and turn them into case studies to get clients via LInkedin outreach

  
People are looking for VERIFIABLE results
I'd like to know that too...
Use Reddit Ads. Spamming doesn't work.
[deleted]
PPC and Social Media Marketing, but taking few courses won't be enough. You must start following industry related websites (to stay up to date) + read many books related to social psychology and copywriting (to understand how to influence and convince people to buy your product/service.

&#x200B;

\- Paid Search (Google, Bing...)

\- Social Media Advertising (Facebook, Instagram)

Search Engine Optimization is a little bit more complicated - you must develop a broader skillset, more difficult to get it right in a year.
I started in email marketing straight out of college. 
Following
Not keyword planner that’s for sure
By far Ahrefs!  And Ahrefs is not only a backlink checking tool.
KW finder is the best one
Ubersuggest
Can try ubersuggest. 
You should use a few. I like Keyword Finder, Keyword IO, LSI Keywords, IDGAF Keyword Planner is still important but Keyword Finder is the best imo
Semrush
Ubersuggest Suggest is Best and Simple Keyword Planner Tool.
There are many tools available online for keyword research but some of the best ones are as below:

**Google Keyword Planner:** 

Though designed for advertising, this tool is the best to find organic keywords for your website. Keyword Planner allows you to:

* Find a new keyword and ad group ideas.
* Obtain search volume for a list of keywords or group them into ad groups.
* Obtain traffic forecasts for a list of keywords.
* Increase keyword lists to find new keyword ideas.

**KW Finder:**

It is a long tail keyword research tool that offers a great interface. It gives you the information on trend, search volume, CPC and difficulty level. You can also get information on local keyword search wherein you can target the search results by city, state or country.

**Keyword Tool:**

Keyword tool creates a database of long-tail keyword suggestions. It is free for first 750+ keyword suggestions. If you want to see the data such as search volume, CPC on AdWords, and competition then you will need to sign-up for the pro version. It also helps you to export your results to CSV.

 
  

You can try Moz’s Keyword Explorer. Also you can check out Keyword Shitter. If you don’t want Google Keyword planner there’s another tool from Google called Google Correlate. It finds search patterns which correspond with real‐world trends. 
In my opinion, Google keyword planner tool is the best
Ahrefs, SEMrush, Market Samurai
Keyword planer is best tool for keyword researching
Pretty niche area and I’d imagine anyone involved would want to keep their advantage - including myself. 

What I will say, it’s currently an all out block on Facebook and Google. They’re so strict it hasn’t been worth risking blatant disregard. From a quick search you can see the different strategies being employed from major players. 

Some movement is starting to happen. 2019 will definitely see a lift on this block, based on how it’s marketed, for Facebook at least. 

You’re in the right market!
This is a broad question and there are a lot of rules around it. People who work in the industry are generally specialists and there are conferences dedicated to the subject. All this to say I don't have any advice to give and it can be difficult to come across.
Tpd.... [`]

I have been doing some digital marketing for a vape company in UK.
I’ve done some work for a cannabis testing facility/lab. It was...interesting.
As a publisher/Agency we created cannabis websites to be able to advertise for cannabis/cbd companies.

Fb, Google and Bing won't allow it on their network. 
What country are you in ? I see ads on google and fb constantly for cbd here in europe. Both from dutch, danish, seeish and british sites all triggered on cbd keywords with cbd oil/paste/vape in the headlines and their remarketing following me on fb/insta. 
Seems rather easy. 

Break it into 2 parts then sub parts scoping in. 

Part 1. Current picture. 
a)Audience size
b)Demographic
c)Geo location 
d)Engagement 
d1) page engagement 
d2) top 10 posts with the most engagement
e)Where they like your page from (where they found your page)

Part 2. Where we want to be
a)Demographics and audiences that will benefit the company 
b)How we get those people with an excitable plan 


Throw some pie charts & bar graphs (pivot tables if you’re feeling fancy) in there and a small paragraph for each section detailing why it’s important and how it affects the companies bottom line. 
Running ads linked to your facebook page or instagram profile is a good start. You can def get results for a couple bucks a day with decent content and you can practice building audiences, tracking CTR, CPC, CPM. Also, you can see how different placements are priced and convert. I saw you can ad a FB pixel to etsy stores too so go buy some antique junk and try to sell it haha so you can track ROAS. 
I’d also like to know this ^
SEMrush is pretty great for keyword analysis. I'd start with the following: think who your customers are and find popular keywords (especially long-tail) that they use to search for your product. Then, write articles using those keywords (especially in headers). Avoid being too promotional and SEO-like and make the article actually useful for the reader, but of course don't forget to mention your product and include links to it. Put those articles on your website. This will help you build your rank in google.
Use Ubersuggest and LSI keywords tools to analyze the keywords for your content and use Yoast SEO as a plugin for WordPress, this plugin will be very helpful for everything. 
SEMrush is a great tool to identify the keywords and on which keywords your competitors are ranking. And also, integrating with google analytics is must to know real traffic on your website.

 
The only way to get the page to rank higher is to put content on it via a blog, get backlinks, and/or share your site to directories that fits your niche.  There are lots of things offsite that needs to be done so you can start ranking.
I'd say spend 10k on your own project(s) and see if you can create something that drives revenue. It looks a lot better on a resume than a certificate. 
Copywriting. Start with that first. 

Digital Advertising will be the next step. 

Have fun! 
Do not do this lol. Invest in yourself. Build a portfolio. Try to snag a few small businesses in your area, and learn as you go. I know that isn't the answer you want to hear, but it's necessary to land a real job in this industry.
Google analytics has a free training program, Udemy has cheap copywriting, strategy, marketing courses. Save that cash.
Seth Hymes
School of hard knocks - use the 10K for a few MVPs.
I would actually disagree with many on this post... I'd go for the course.

Of course the only REAL way to learn is by DOING but I highly recommend learning from someone to avoid mistakes.

It also depends on what you want. Do you want to do this freelance / agency style and be your own boss? Then  take Dan Henry's FB Ads course or Sam Oven's Accelerator

&#x200B;

Do you want do to corporate? Then just go work for someone for free and use the $10k to support yourself.

&#x200B;

For myself, I chose the corporate/start-up route because my entrepreneurial endeavors failed lol... and I decided to work with someone that scaled 3 businesses to 7-figres using Digital Marketing (Funnel building and traffic.).   
I've done it over 5 months so far and because of it I currently manage like $30k per month on FB Ad spend, in charge of email marketing/follow-up, take control of our launches, and do a lot of really cool stuff... plus these are skills that are in-demand.. i mean what business owner wouldn't want a system that brings in more money through online marketing? 

&#x200B;

I don't plan on this route (corporate/start up) forever but i'm in it because I also get access to a lot of super smart A-Players and get an inside scoop... 

It's also lead me to having access to Dan Henry's course (which seems super basic to me now) & Sam Oven's course but I can use some of the principles to make myself a ton of $$.  


**So to sum up:**  
-If you're more entrepreneurial and are willing to really hustle, take a course (Dan Henry's FB ads or Sam Oven's accelerator)

\-If you're not, find someone to learn from thats done/doing big things and work for free.

&#x200B;

Honestly, even if you are entrepreneurial, i'd say take the 2nd and use it to leverage it for the skills and clients that you can land soon after 

&#x200B;
Learn how to drive traffic. 
None.
If I had 10k to use on courses - altMBA from Seth Godin($3.8K) and Cult of Copy’s one-year mentorship ($6K). 
Look into a training course involving the Facebook pixel. There are a few. Dan Henry comes to mind.

Digital Marketing is all about experience.

There are plenty of excellent free resources that can get you started, but there's nothing that motivates you to learn specific things than putting your own dang money on the line.
CIM
None.  Get a bachelors degree
I’m in b2b saas and it’s primarily paid search. 90% AdWords and 10% bing. And about 20% of my monthly budget goes to review websites to generate leads from users comparing our solution to our competitors. 
Google & FB Ads
I've been testing a new flow which my clients are now asking me to do for them. Lead gathering through [seamless.ai](http://seamless.ai), LinkedIn Sales Navigator, or Autoklose then automated email outreach via Autoklose. I track clicks to Calendly and my site via google analytics campaigns. Some emails have video, others have whitepapers or targeted links. 

It's new for me but has been working. I get 3-5 meeting requests per day and have been managing the process for a lawyer and some other clients at $1,250/ month. Better than the people trying to sell me on LinkedIn outreach for $1,500/ month. I never click those messages, why would I pay you to send them. lol
Since everyone is sharing SEM/Social Ads (which is of course a great option), here's something different: depending on your company/niche/etc, you can offer up free, informative content in exchange for contact information. Build an email or call list to begin targeting for potential sales. Quantity might not be as high, but quality of the leads should be great.
SEM, paid social, and predictive marketing via Rocket Fuel. Occasionally experiment with in-person events and email list purchasing, but they're generally not worth the time or money.
Google ads, Bing ads, linkedIn, Facebook, Instagram

Then you've got advanced programmatic for retargeting, sequential messaging, cross device as well as platforms like native, connected TV, connected audio.

If you're pin pointing your targeting you should be able to use most strategies but customized for leads. 
You can go for performance marketing  also - Like CPL campaigns. There are ad networks which run these kind of campaigns. 
Google Adwords and Facebook.
All apart use Smart Display campaigns where you need to pay only for the leads you get, not for the impressions and clicks. But to run this you need at least 100 conversions on your adwords account.
Facebook’s algorithms strongly prefer to show content from close friends instead of businesses these days.

- Makes Facebook more personal and is meant to increase user positive sentiment 

- Makes businesses pay for engagement by boosting posts.

Only way to get past this without sponsoring posts is to have either super high engagement posts (if someone regularly engages, they’re more likely to see future posts organically), or by asking users to get notifications when a page posts OR asking them to set your page to “see first”.

Win-win for Facebook, not so much for businesses. 
Keep in mind that sometimes it's just the industry. Big brands do ok, as do shareable brands (pet, food, retail related etc) and local businesses. Sometimes if you're industry is a bit more niche, then Facebook might not be the best place for your company.

Obviously you can still do well on there, but it's gotten a lot harder over the years. Perhaps they did well a few years ago and their reach has suffered, but their marketing team just keeps going anyway. It happens. 

There's honestly any number of reasons why. Don't assume they've cheated by buying followers though.
Organic posts get throttled to 2-5% of your followers so reach is constrained.

Boosting is junk DO NOT do that.

Sponsored ads are the best way to start running tests. That's what the big boys do.

If you've got any kind of ecom or direct revenue goals you should definitely be looking at that. 
If they have such low interactions might mean that their followers are fake.
As far my experience, the lowest organic reach should be at least 8 (0.0008%)
And that is only for Likes. Organic Sharing rates are even lower. 
Pages with 10,000 + fans or followers have much bigger organic response rates. 
Definitely fake.

Lots of people buy fake followers, not understanding that they need at least a 2% engagement rate if they want Facebook's Edgerank algo to organically show posts to followers.

If your engagement rate drops below 2%, then you end up in a downward spiral.

Paying for followers means you'll need to also continuously pay for engagement.
Facebook is getting so good at targeting now it just needs a little helping hand. Give it one or two interests and a rough idea of age and geo. It is amazing how well it can learn from there and hone in on your ideal audience. Often too much detail in interests will increase the cost as you are giving fb a smaller audience to go at. That’s step 1.... 

After that the pixel and retargeting can really help you get your conversions based on the first step. 
Have you set facebook pixel on your website?
Do you retargetting the customers? And abandonment cart handling?
Try to use video when possible. But make sure it’s a good video. Facebook also now gives you an option to make a slideshow ad within their platform which is basically a low grade video. Check it out when you are in the ad level. 

A good conversion rate is totally relevant to the industry and what you’re trying to do. If this is your first test, let this help establish the benchmark. 

Finally, if you have email addresses, you should upload into audience manager and then make a 1% and 2% lookalike off of them. 
I recommended this before and it seemed to help a similar ask, helped me figure out pricing too. https://www.freshbooks.com/assets/other/Breaking-the-Time-Barrier.pdf
I've done freelance for years. My advice, shoot for a monthly budget so you have steady hours and pay. Your rate should depend upon your skills and experience. Also consider self employment tax. I would target at min $100 / hour and more like $200. If there is pushback just point out you are cheaper and better than agencies.
Hi,

Since you have no experience, please charge a reasonable amount and then gradually increase it.
That indeed would be awesome 
You mean a reporting service like raventools? Cause I'm pretty sure they have Twitter and MailChimp tracking. I'm sure there's better options too, that's just what I use.
can you please message me to describe what you're looking for in more detail, I'm looking for a side project. 
That means they've done all of Google Ads certifications. I would suggest adding all of them to your LinkedIn.
I was under the impression that you earned the certification after you complete the fundamentals course plus one more. (Source: I just did it yesterday and got the certificate). 
As a digital agency, we do look for google ad certifications in our candidates, meaning one has completed the fundamentals plus one of the specialitations. It proves that you put the effort into passing the exams and you have the basic knowledge. Also, it is mandatory for businesses to have a certain amount of certified employees to achive the status of being a google partner business.

So: definitely add your certifications to your resume and linkedin profile.
Word of advice: don’t try to find the easy way out. If you really want digital marketing to work for you, learn it. Take a few courses. It’ll pay off. 
Similarweb
Uuh u don't write a marketer at all. I didn't understand half of what you said.

Well maybe I'm just a quack marketer 
There are some research tools like ComScore or Nielsen which help you identify where your target audience is online. I don't think there isn't one tool that would develop a whole campaign strategy, that is what your clients are hiring you for! Do some target market research and develop a strategy that makes sense based on the campaign goals, budget and target. There are lots of resources online that can help with digital marketing strategy. 
How to drive traffic from blogs #shoutquick
To track the users, view demographics and many more things you can use Google Analytics. If you have a gmail account then add your business to google analytics and then you’ll be able to get analytics on all the stuff related to users, geography, time they spent on your website and many more.  

For initiating campaigns, you can create an account on  Mailchimp. Mailchimp is a marketing automation platform and an email marketing service. Mailchimp you can start mail campaigns to potential users also send them newsletters. 
Use a tool like SEMRush.com. Start plugging in your competitors and pull the keywords that they rank for. Pull the main keywords that you already target on your website and drop all of those keywords into a spreadsheet. De-dupe all of the keywords. Take the main keywords and drop them into the keyword magic tool by SEMRush and grab the missing keywords. Pull all of the long tail around those. De-dupe the keywords again. Now you’re ready to get started. 

Break out your keywords by what type of content will work for them. Is it an article or a pillar page, etc. Also, see if you can break out your keywords by trends (SEMRush does monthly trends, although it’s not completely accurate) that can help you create content around different times of the year. 
Google Keyword Planner is free and would be a good starting point. Agree with the SEMRush recommendation as well. 
There are simpler tools but I prefer Adobe After Effects. There are plugins and templates you can use for easier production. There's also Adobe Premiere for simple edits if you want fewer motion graphics.
Rocketium. Hands down
Dropmock has tons video templates 
It entire series of tools very helpful 

Viddictive video templates are great too
Crello graphic editor has hundreds of predesigned animated and video templates - just rolled out a major update in August. Requires a PRO account.
Vendesta. Ontraport. Infusionsoft. Hstchbuch. Greenrope. 
If you are using Wordpress,  there are many plugin that integrate with landing page plugin, CRM and email marketing. But it may takes more than one plugin to do all the jobs.

And I don't think there is one product cover "all in one" But you can find tools that compatible with each others

Some wordpress theme also has built in drag and drop page builder. You can use those or u can use a regular theme with landing page or visual page editor plugin

Thrive architect is a plugin I used to create a page from scratch or use one of their templates. You may like or not like it depends on your learning curve. But it is very helpful. 

You can Google Wordpress landing page theme and plugin to view a list of the available products. Try the demo in both desktops and mobile. Because some theme that claim mobile friendly can look real awful. 

As for email marketing, you can setup MailChimp and jotform and integrate with Wordpress. 

For CRM, you can try to use Zapier and Mailchimp with Googlesheet which will collect customers and lead data in row of spreadsheets 

Or you may use saleforce or zoho. 

More importantly is to setup your Google Analytics Goals, Facebook Pixel, Google Tag Manager, etc to track and collect future data
Squarespace might be your best bet, but you might need a service like Unbounce, Instapage, or Google Optimize to really dig into the landing pages.
I suggest Wishpond. It have all you need, plus a great integration with all you may need via Zapier or directly.
You can use it to do marketing automation by itself or by MailChimp.

My 2 cents


I would suggest you to try Leadsquared. Amazing tool with amazing features.
I don’t yet have the bandwidth to test this but if anyone else tries it, I’d love to read your experience here. 
GREAT JOB! Thank you for creating, i thought doing it in excel was fine but this is next level ease :)
This is great. I hate doing this manually in Excel.
Ask the client what there typical customers are. That seems like a broad range for a night club. Usually it's like 21-30 or 35-45, but I could be wrong.

Test test test though. Break out each of your interest into their own ad sets. Even further break down age groups into ad sets. Dump a solid budget amount into the first 2-3 days to see what is working and turn off the ones that aren't.
18-45 is a bit too broad, especially for 80s-90s nostalgia event. 18 year olds were not even born then, so they have nothing to be nostalgic about :) I would do something along the lines of 25-50, and target, for instance, artists that were popular back then.
Go to julian\[dot\]com blog. He got a section about growth hacking and there are great tips on FB ads. Must read!
In terms of additional interest targeting, you should do some research in fb insights to see where else that broad target hangs out. Make a few ad sets in the campaign to test the different cross interest groupings.
Did you target location...?
[removed]
[removed]
You will probably want to start by asking yourself if you want to specialize in one aspect of digital, because there are a lot, or if you want to take a high level approach. 

One thing I think every digital marketer should have a firm grasp on (regardless of the path you choose) is analytics. Being able to make data-driven decisions and understanding how those decisions have made an impact is extremely important. A good start is getting Google Analytics certified. 

I've been doing digital marketing for over 5 years and took the high level approach, which has led me to my current position as the digital marketing director for a SaaS company. I got my start as an in-house digital marketing specialist managing the digital analytics (GA certification), SEO, social (Facebook blueprint), and paid search accounts (Google partners certification, Bing Ads certification) for a sizeable eCommerce company. I continued to learn and expand my skill set into things like programmatic, UX design, account-based marketing (ABM certified strategist), marketing automation (Marketo/Pardot certifications), among others. Earning a few of those certifications for those programs where I could. 
Hubspot academy 
Bufferblog
Facebook blueprint
Google adwords( course by google)

Start with these...these are basics in digital marketing
I would suggest getting Inbound Marketing certified. It's free to do with HubSpot. Learn everything you can about lead generation and customer-centric marketing. You'll find your niche in time, but you want to know how the machine works.

Honestly, I still consider myself new to the field.
How it started for me?
I graduated in Corporate Finance, didn’t want to work in the field and decided to find a job in marketing (no specifics at first) but everyone kept coming back and telling how my degree is an obstacle in the way.

Some months later I met old classmates that were launching a startup and needed some kinda CTO (but they needed something like an all rounder), working with them for a year and half paved the way for the digital creative agency I’m working for today.

Almost a year now
5 years into this. Started by linking articles to a facebook page for a one person start-up. Would reply to queries and monitor engagement , learning as I went along. 
Pirated Udemy courses, took Google, Hubspot and University of Illinois course on Coursera. 
Subscribed to a TON of newsletters and followed Twitter accounts. 
I still do. It is an ever-changing landscape and I still continue to learn. But the best education has come from the experience of actually handling accounts. 
I was taken under an SEO-guy's wing. Laid off after 16 months. Salty about it.

Then I tried to sell merchant processing services for a few months. Bad at it.

Then I tried to sell Wordpress & SEO packages. Bad at it.

Went to night school for Lean Six Sigma certificate.

Then worked as a campaign manager for a black-hat affiliate network for 1yr. Felt bad about it.

Went to a JS coding bootcamp. Loved it, expensive tho.

Then I got a job at a legit programmatic agency. Paid well, at 1yr took a cut to work 3 days/wk.

Now I'm doing their performance dashboards 3 days/wk, getting a masters degree the other 4 days.
As a generalist in 2000. The web was weird, nerdy, online advertising was a 486pixel banner. 
Started with an SEO internship now I’m more of a generalist with SEO, web design, social, some email, etc.
[deleted]
Started as a generalist, basically I was just okay at every digital marketing function. "wearer of serveral hats" but not great at any one thing. One advantage is that it's great to get a sense of what your strengths and weaknesses are. Now I specialize in e-mail marketer, which I enjoy a lot more than having my hands in everything. 
I started as a generalist from email marketing, content marketing, and social media marketing. This was about 8+ years ago before it was a thing. I am still a generalist but focus more on strategy now instead of execution. I do miss the specialization side sometimes. 
My start was related to web analytics jobs since I was a database analyst. Then I discovered the digital marketing “world” and got into PPC and SEO courses.
Specialist. Just a few months in paid social - Facebook specifically. Although I do help with SEM marketing from time to time. I love SEM but learning more about Facebook marketing has been rewarding so far.
Very interesting article. It's cool to see an example of a digital marketer using classical and theoretical concepts to inform their work. Often it seems to just be about techniques and tools dominating the conversation rather than underpinning philosophy. I wonder whether we'll see more of this deconstructionist approach to marketing as millennials get more senior positions in marketing. Although to be honest I grew up with the internet and so did many of my peers, and for much of the time it's still the same old. Perhaps when more of the audience expects satire or subversion then we will see more of it.
Great idea, the current groups are just full of spam these days. Funnily enough I left almost all of them recently.

I’m in the process of launching a group around local business marketing for the same reasons so maybe we could bounce some ideas around as to what’s working etc...
What’s the name so I can search. Having problem with link but sure it’s just my phone
Going to join now
I've been a part of a couple web development groups and they've been an amazing resource. 

If you can manage this well I think more of these groups are necessary ! Will join 
Do you allow posting.?
We are ready to bang it..! 
Great stuff!
Hi,

Very interesting post. No body has though of the role of "search intent." I guess AI algorithms built into search engines will take care of that. Obviously, search will be more powerful in 2018. I also see possibility of searching based on image data and video data and not solely on textual keyword.

Regards


You probably want a transactional email service then. Mailchimp is best for newsletters. Mailchimp recently made all their automation free so transactional like emails can be sent for free. That being said, transactional isn't their bread and butter. Sendgrid, sendinblue, mailgun & mailjet specialize in transactional email
Hubspot will do precisely what you are asking with a lot of additional features for Inbound Marketing.  The free version only allows 5 email templates but the upgrade is well worth the investment.  It even integrates with Mailchimp!
We allow creating fully personalized templates (but of course you can use our easy to use drag and drop or HTML template editor if you want) and then, send them to your contacts list.
Feel free to visit our [website](https://elasticemail.com/) to know more about our email marketing services and if you will have some questions or concerns, feel free to contact us!
Gmail. Use canned response lab feature. Include HTML email template as canned response. 

https://business.tutsplus.com/tutorials/how-to-create-email-templates-in-gmail-with-canned-responses--cms-28076
You are screwed :-)
Hehe, well, you are marketing services to provide marketing to companies...  So, you better be good at marketing said marketing services.

In all seriousness, just think of it this way and start planning accordingly... You are providing a team of marketing experts to organizations that do not currently have the knowledge to effectively grow their business and customer base by attracting new customers in the digital space.  Your team comes in and solves a problem for them by effectively helping them to tell their story through digital, without them having to learn the nuances of doing so.

I will tell you this.  For traditional B2B customers, this is usually a harder sell.  For customers with a lot of products (like semiconductor outfits), you could talk about using digital to educate existing customer on new products while also providing solid content through channels to help grow awareness (like blog posts discussing new product offerings).  

At the end of the day, selling digital marketing is like selling anything else.  Identify how the service can impact a customer, build an ROI around it, then profit.  Don't get bogged down, look at what your target market is doing, find the people that are performing already, then go to those that are struggling and offer to get them into the same arena as the successful ones...

This was all kind of "stream of consciousness", but take the long weekend to think about what your organization actually does, not what they say they do in their marketing materials, but where they are really good.  Take that, and build an offering from there.
Well, the best practice would be to link building, but if you want leads then I recommend you Google Adsense and Facebook advertisement. But not only depends on Facebook, you can get your leads from Twitter and Linkedin too.
Holy shit. I'm in the exact reverse situation. I'm a sales guy who's making the leap into starting a digital marketing agency. Where are you located? PM me OP and I'll let you have a crack at the models I used.
I agree that true sales professionals don't come across as what the stereotype portrays: sleezy, used car salesmen, that are pushy and don't take no for an answer.  Now, it's true that a salesman will ask for the sale, but it's not until you've taken time to ask questions about your potential client to see where there pain points are, how they run their business, and where their gaps are.  After you've taken catalogue of this data (mentally or physically jotting it down) you return with how your product or process actually addresses these issues, but more importantly, you explain the benefits in the same terms that they expressed their concerns.  This way you align your solution to their specific problem.  So, in reality, true salespeople are only solving problems.  But they do so by asking the right questions and presenting a solution to those problems with a customer tailored response.  

If you'd like an idea of how to create an effective presentation, I'd highly recommend listening to "The 3 Rooms" podcast by Bowery Capital (http://www.bowerycap.com/blog/marketing/three-rooms/ ) This may seem like it's just for subscription based companies, but I've applied this mantra to my sales pitch for years and have had great success with it.  
Sign up to smart insights, the online resource by Dave Chaffey. There's a free and paid version. I'd go paid if pos.

Understand what each social channel is for and how to use them. There's loads of blogs on this so google is your friend. You will probably have to pay to get the reach you want but it is possible to do it for free (just takes a lot longer).

If you are totally new to marketing then my suggestion would be to get a handle on marketing basics: audience, messaging etc. as this all applies online too :)

Edit: hubspot also do some free courses. I've not done them yet but that might also be worth a look :)
Hi Mark, there are millions of resources and you will end up cluttering your inbox. Here's something you can give a spin http://www.dgitalerts.com. All relevant Digital Marketing news,tips & tools are curated and summarised using an AI trained engine. Currently in beta. 
The internet, especially social platforms are valuing video very highly these days. If you are on Facebook, Twitter, and IG, I recommend creating video content that you can post on those social channels. Then reach out to people that you feel might be interested in your content by searching #Hashtags like #GymLife, #HealthyEating, #Motivation, etc. then like, comment, and engage with those users.
Hi Mark - I have a few clients in the same industry, so I'm fairly knowledgeable in the niche. If you want, feel free to PM me, and I'll take a look for you!
Email marketing has a low return. The effort & cost would be huge to ensure a continually demographically accurate database. So I'll just bulk send an offer to a crap shoot of emails and see what happens - but I don't care, the revenue is elsewhere 
There are many free ways to get traffic to your website. 

Create a stunt that will attract social media influencers, bloggers, media and news to your website. The louder and more ridiculous the better, a great example is how Google hides easter eggs in their search engine, i.e. search on Google for "do a barrel roll". I also remember when they offered a pac man game on Google maps. 

The best traffic is always free, master your SEO and analytics. Find the words that bring in the most relevant traffic to your website, and that of your competition. Make sure you insert it in your content normally and make sure Pictures, Page titles, Meta tags, description all have these mastered keywords. If you are looking for a tool to assess your competitor's keywords ping me. Try and write content around these keywords, we give our bloggers cheat sheets for keywords to include. Look for micro niches in content on the Adwords tool planner.

I would always go for industry specific forums and sites and develop your thought leadership. Like Reddit find all the subreddits that are relevant to your industry and try and establish a presence for you as individuals. 

Create relevant social media content. Easier said then done but master this and enjoy the best organic growth possible. Use videos, pictures, and posts. Remember a picture says 1000 words, a video has 1000 photos. Try and be as relevant as possible using timely posts. It hard to see what's the next big thing, and to beat the kerb on it. Here's a good tip. Cover the basics, holidays, news years, back to school, Christmas, etc., and free up your time for new and trendy things. 

Develop a growth hack; there are tonnes of strategies you can employ to hack growth. For example, a referral program is free, and a reward is handed after the action goal is met. PayPall and DropBox have mastered this and enjoyed systemic growth using a pull strategy. Referral is one hack, and there are a tonne of them. It depends on what kind of business your promoting, referrals are ideal for SaaS businesses. 

Create a challenge for your industry, and leverage talents who want to shine in the limelight to promote your business. You can give away your product/service as a prize. Or a small prize, they would do it for the recognition. 

Partnerships are free, find an organisation that would like to partner with you, but is not in direct competition, and would like access to your mailing list. Have them sponsor a prize, that you give when you host a challenge. 

Newswire and HARO are free news, sites and it doesn't hurt to put your latest news there, you can potentially land relevant traffic. Product hunt and Beta list as well if your SaaS these are awesome. 

Put your product/service on Craigslist and other free classified sites. 

Start a podcast and invite industry influencers to be hosted on this podcast. You will leverage their social reach to create awareness about your company.  

Develop an evangelist program that rewards the best of your users/readers to ensure you socially and publically to attract more people. 

If you're an e-commerce site find an affiliate program that works. 






Well, just a few tips that'll help.  You may not get massive results, but this could be a good starting point:

Use social media aggressively - engage fully with potential customers that engage with you.  Ensure posts use popular hashtags to gain a little more traction.

If you have an email list, start sending out daily letters to your subscribers.

For your website, do the best you can do to ensure it is optimized well for search (keywords, etc...)


I think that 7 days (which is today) is a very short period

Content marketing on its own is completely useless, by that I mean without paid traffic it can take very long to gain a bit of traction.

SEO is also completely useless...

If you want to win at marketing, Paid is the way to go until that tell your friend to try the strategies below.

1. **find other local businesses and ask them to position something in their store in exchange you do something cool as well (referrals back and forth).**
2. **Find social media influencers and offer something of value in exchange for a shout out.**
3. **Create a press release that offers value to media outlets, so they get her on the radio/TV or in the paper.** Usually something of value is something the company can do the contribute to others.
4. Start using social to show that the company is active and engaging (even thoug it's just a start up)
5. Pick up that plastic piece of shit we call a phone.
6. **Do a Facebook giveaway. Cost $100 ish.**
6a. give something away SUPER valuable crazy huge! (example: restaurant 6 months free lunch)
6b. Create the post
set it up as an ad in Facebook's power editor and start the ad for just 5$-$25 a day.
6c. Get [Leadpages](https://www.leadpages.net) trial and set up a simple landing page and a thank you page.
6d. get [ActiveCampaign](https://www.activecampaign.com) trial to have an email list you can collect email addresses' names and phone numbers in. 
6e. pick a winner - give away free stuff - interview the winner - up-sell the winner - create a press release for local media. BOOM.
6f. Send promo email to the rest with a special offer.
6g. continue to build goodwill by providing people with relevant value on the email list and social media.

the benefits of the give away are a big list of potential customers/clients you can market to times infinity for a reasonable cost, brand boost, engagement boost, everything boost.
IMHO, she would consider an effective inbound marketing strategy, think about content, a blog, white papers and so on, make your website filled with enough articles to attract people, post stuff in daily basis even many times a day and I can help for that with no charges(let's discuss this in private)
Sounds to me like it's all about the organic traffic for you:

Write a blog which is heavily relevant to your site/ company. 

Make sure your site content is well keyworded (note that this means quality not quantity).

Ensure your site's meta tags, description etc is all keyworded correctly.

Additionally you could look at other channels:

Refferal - See if you can get listed on some other relevant sites that do get traffic. If you're a cool startup there's a chance reaching out to tech blogs etc could work.

Social - Pick a few social platforms and post to them religiously. FB and Twitter might be best for traffic. Use relevant hashtags, run completions to grow your audience etc.




Content marketing is nomrally my number one recommendation, but it will take too long until you see results (6-9 months at least). Without budget, paid ads are neither an option of course. So, depending on your product you can either try to get some nice press wih your launch - or you count on agressive direct sales. 
SEO has had a very tough time the last couple years. Google work hard to stop people gaming their system and try to promote websites based on their quality and merit.

While it seems like fighting an uphill battle, SEO can still be done but requires much effort. It is executed mostly by performing tasks such as setting up fake websites, creating artificial links, building of keyword-laced landing pages for specific keywords and tags.

The best way to genuinely increase a websites ranking is to ensure the website has good security (SSL certificates); interesting, well written and formatted content; relevant and considered information. 

A good place to start building an understanding might be from google itself. They offer a pretty good introduction to increase your insight of how the system works: https://digitalgarage.withgoogle.com/

Good luck and remember: Most digital marketers are just winging it, even a basic understanding will allow you to pretty much make it up as you go along.
I'd immensely recommend that you check out NeilPatel.com. He is the most transparent expert in SEO that I've heard. The previous commenter mentioned most folks create fake sites, etc., but that's not truly the case. PageRank, although complex and ever-changing with updates, was built off the premise of high value sites linking to your site, thus old school black hat was manipulating .gov and .edu websites. That said, producing great content and getting your content and/or links on relevant sites is most helpful (media, bloggers, etc). Google "Who is Neil Patel?" 

Let’s accept the fact - SEO is not easy. You need to:

1) Invest lot of time in getting your hand dirty
2) SEO industry is very dynamic and fast pace. You need to keep yourself updated. And, for that you need to read, read, and read.

Now, coming to how to build up a skill set for SEO, here are my 2-cents:

1) Learn and focus on On-Page SEO . Here is a great post by Brian Dean- http://backlinko.com/on-page-seo

2) One of the mistakes newbies do is related to site indexing. And, because of this, Google is not able to find and crawl their sites. In that case, all the efforts you put in for SEO go waste.

3) Once you finish that, you need to focus on:

a) Creating Quality Content.

Always go for quality over quantity. Don’t afraid to put data. People love to read long posts backed by data and facts. Here is a great post (http://www.serped.com/agency-blog-post-ideas-topics/1941) by my friends Colin on how to come up with new content Ideas for you blog.

4) Now that you are done with on Page SEO and started building content, time to focus on off-page SEO. Here are few tips by Neil Patel- http://neilpatel.com/2016/01/19/everything-you-need-to-know-about-off-page-seo/

5) Other things you need to focus on:

 - Comprehensive Keyword Research
 - Your Site Management
 - Regular Tracking of your Keyword ranking to measure your efforts.

And, the list goes on. But, the above mention point are good to drive 8–10k traffic a month to your blog (I have done all these and getting 8.3K traffic per month).

Hope it helps :)
Not quite a direct answer, but... 

Avoid the superstars : Seth Godin, Brian  Solis, Neil Patel and so on. All know what they are talking get about but won't teach you anything practical. I'd go niche. Have a look at sites like PPC Hero, Search engine Watch, Econsultancy (disclaimer - I worked for them a while ago) etc and follow their individual bloggers. Also check out twitter chats like #ecomchat and see who answers there. Some really good people with a focus on 'helping you do your job better", rather than 'selling you their new book'.
There's actually quite a lot of them, just to mention Jay Baer, Neil Patel, Sujan Patel off top of my head. You might want to google some articles listing the experts/influencers. Here's a Twitter list I found some time ago you might find helpful too https://twitter.com/PostPlanner/lists/content-marketers/members
Moz blog! 
Rand from Moz + GrowthHackers.com is a great place to check daily.
If you're into digital marketing crisis management, I've been writing a series here: http://www.crowdbabble.com/blog/category/social-media-crisis-management-2/

I'm not an industry 'expert', though. I really like AdWeek's social media section, and I follow writers like Lauren Johnson and Chris Heine.
15 Influential Digital Marketing Educators You Should Follow
http://blog.dmioa.com/15-influential-digital-marketing-educators-you-should-follow/
The article below by Inc gives you the top 5 free places on-line.

http://www.inc.com/larry-kim/top-5-free-online-courses-for-digital-marketers.html
I did the idm professional diploma. It was ok but not sure I'd recommend it. It was very unorganised. 

I'd take a look at Google squared which is meant to be good.

In terms of resources, the smartinsights website is unbeatable imo.
Marketing Land
I like AdAge's daily digital email.  Digital Doughnut's working hard to be an important news source.  And App Annie has tons of data that they produce articles and blog reports on.
Digiday and eMarketer have some good stuff too. 
I use Feedly app to get the digital marketing news on daily basis. I've subscribed to numerous blogs including backlinko, hubspot, marketingProfs daily, Moz Blog, Semrush Blog, Copyblogger, Mashable, Seth Godin and many more. 

Feedly is one of the best ways to get all updates at one place.

Otherwise, you may also subscribe to the newsletters of these blogs to get the regular updates from the directly to your inbox.
About 30 different website automated to slack whenever they post something new.  
Search engine journal has some good stuff occasionally. Moz is also a respectable source of information or you can sign up for "Think With Google" and get some insights right from the source
re/code as well
Did you find a list from 2015 and change the year?
I can appreciate the time that went into putting this together.  

Not all media is created equal and come on...most of this is so repetitive, mobile, PPC? Video? Sponsored content?

As someone with a marketing background its more pillow talk to give agencies a pat on their backs.  Agencies will recommend wearables to their clients and I guarantee it will get cut bc nobody wants to take risk on something that wont  convert, unless they are targeting that specific market.  The reality is that most clients Do not have enough ad budget to take risks.  And why should they just so the agency can go to Cannes? 

Im surprised you didnt talk about what is important for clients to look out for in 2016 to help grow their business.    What about the importance of data mining and putting the collective data together  to build a strategy that will effectively and efficiently push customers through the  funnel.   

What about Virtual reality and the role it will play in the retail environment? Virgin America was testing virtual reality on flights recently?  Seems like virtual reality could be a new avenue for retail and e-commerce, which Lets face it is in desperate need of a makeover. 

 Native ads or lets just call them what they are "sponsored content or advertorials" was something bloggers were in hot water over and now it seems the wave of the future..

PPC has been around since the dawn of the internet.  Remember Overture? 

 Video will not come into its own until the NFL agrees to stream live content beyond games in London (which I hear might happen in 2017).  When the cost of a 60-second spot becomes cheaper than video... 

The reality is that TV and what we call "traditional media" isnt going away anytime soon.   What is good for marketers is that those mediums are more cost efficient and that there plans are comprehensive touch points to the target market. 

All in all,This is a great think piece that agencies should use to dissect what strategy their clients will actually need for media planning.  




This is a great list, pretty much agree with everything, lol.
This is great, and very helpful. Thank you for your work and time on this!

Great article. Thank you!
Great list, thank you! The only thing that I would like to add to the list of digital marketing trends for 2016 is A/B/N testing, because no matter how much quality traffic sources you have if the page converts it badly your precious traffic will leave a page before ‘thank you page’… Therefore, if you are not engaged to a construction of sales funnel and identifying weak places in it yet, it's the exact time to start! To do this, there are many services, among which there are more popular ones, e.g. Optimyzely.com, VWO.com and less popular, cheaper services like Maximizely.com with almost the same functionality. Such services provide all-in-one benefits to improve websites and sales funnels like different useful analytics tools, visual editor easy to use even for beginners in web design and so on and so forth. Try this in 2016! :)   
The most straight forward way to do this would be by using Hubspot but unfortunately is also the most expensive way of doing it. 

I am sure you can achieve similar results using a bunch of other services (Intercom.io, Vero email etc) but you might have to work a bit harder.
You can try feedly by just adding the blogs or websites you want to follow and it will collate all the content in a feed for you.
I use Google Alerts, and IFTTT recipes for Twitter and Reddit keyword search which curates into daily email digests.
I use an RSS feed to keep up with websites on a daily basis, and I use Twitter and Instagram as a ‘fun’ way to consume whatever brain and eye candy is posted.
go for feedly
Important news always pops up in either my Facebook or Twitter feed. Especially on Twitter I make sure to have a well curated list of accounts I follow.
Get results for people and build a portfolio, and then you should have clients lining up to work with you. The issue you face is everyone and their mother thinks they can launch a PPC/Facebook ads service on the site after doing a bull shit training, and then faking it till they make it. 

&#x200B;

I have 15 clients and they get offers from people all the time who do Facebook Ads/PPC and 99.9% of them are all full of shit, so my advice is since you have some experience already it sounds like, build a portfolio or way to convey that level of practionership to prospects.
Your experience is your connection. Local businesses should be easy to approach, and freelancer sites like Fiverr and UpWork will build up your 

Tread carefully though, if you are employed full time you might struggle dealing with your own clients. What happens when a client wants to discuss something while you're at work or you need to edit a campaign? I can't see your current employer letting you freelance on the side.
Networking. Reaching out. Offering services.

Then there is also, fiverr, upwork.

You can use google my business app to find local business as well.

Moreover, carry a personality that people trust. More often than not, people want a digital marketing consultant. Lots of business owners will automatically want to connect with you and if you impress them enough, you might be hired. 

Cheers!
Be honest about what you can offer. Most clients skeptical of people who promise instant or phenomenal results - just be candid.

Also make sure your contract doesn't include a non-competitor clause/find out if your work culture prohibits that kind of thing. Last thing you want is to lose your job while trying to brand out.
I get the: "How would you improve this or that aspect of our Digital Marketing efforts?" In every interview I have. I recommend you to thoroughly go over every single aspect of their DM and think of at least 1 or 2 things that could make a real difference (in terms of profits but also in terms of ). Hope it helps and good luck!
Due to the fact that the position you're applying " is quite creative," I would recommend preparing something which can show your vision and how you can contribute to the company. As far as I understood your job is more about storytelling and building the campaign for the company which will help them not only to build a bright presence on social media but will make them unique. So don't be afraid to be who you are. 

In my company, we had a similar situation. Despite the fact that we are a digital marketing company, we have applied a person who had nothing to do with marketing and was working in the film industry before. But this fact helped her to develop a really brave campaign for our platforms. Now it works perfectly.  


So, if you want to stand out or to show you're really interested in the position: maybe prepare something to show how it can work if you will do it. It can be one post, or brief structure and prepositions what should be changed or improved. Just show this creative vision that you have. And don't be afraid of it! Good luck! ;)
The whole challenge of Digital Marketing is to make people talk of your brand.  Yeah online presence and reach are technical terms.  But the real goal is to make people talk about your brand in person.  
Also spending budget efficienctly is a good point.  The reason people do DM is to cut down budget.  Remind the company that it's easier to spend money wisely and try out multiple campaigns in the same budget and not reduce it.  
How you integrate traditional marketing with digital marketing really gives you an edge in an interview! 

Worked for me!
Apologies if this all sounds obvious, but this is how I would approach it. 1. Step back into what purpose the site *is* supposed to be serving, not everything is transactional. 2. Consider who is likely to benefit and seek to know more about that. 3. What questions will they have that the site can answer or connect to. Then the usual google trends, search console and competitor analysis.

I’ve been working on a campaign for a specialist brand agency, again not expected to convert from search but looking to be part of more potential client considerations. Hope that helps.
Agree with above. You have to figure out what the client goal/expectation is of their site. Then exceed those expectations. 

I did a sure for a large insurance company that doesn't want direct traffic because they seem through local agents, but then I showed them how we can direct traffic to their local agent network and they were floored.
On the upside you get to call in and interact with Google customer service, truly the shining star among those who know their product well and go the extra mile to solve your problem /s
If there is a bot running the accounts, it might store usernames it is following in a database, and then draw on that database of usernames for other accounts. So, bot account A discovers you because of some hashtag or some follower of yours, stores you in a database. When bot account B, C, and D run but don't find anyone to follow, they fall back on the data stashed by account A and follow you that way.
A lot of those rats(spam bots) work on the same principle - they "attack" famous or popular accounts. If you follow the same accounts with all of your accounts - there is a good reason they will reach you. Also, there is a possibility of making the connection via friends, family accounts that you follow or if they follow you back on your accounts.

Since it is a bot - it's not that it's targeting especially you - it just follows his algorithm of targeting accounts, and you maybe pop up because of one of the reasons mentioned above.
Spam like how? Like fake comments and likes? Only way to avoid that is set your account to private but you limit your growth that way.
Spam bots tend to target the followers of popular accounts. Example if both your account follow <insert popular instagram account here> it goes through the followers of that account and spams them.
Try Udemy or Lynda for digital marketing courses. when you buy Udemy courses, make sure you wait for the discount 'season' (which is ever 2 weeks and gives you 90% off lol). not sure if that applies for lynda too though.  


but yeah hubspot and GA work well as a base too. get the GAIQ certification while you're at it.
We have a free SEO course at seo101.com/course
Facebook blueprint if you're looking to run media at all; I think it costs around $300. You can also start taking webinars: emarketer, Adweek and Adage all have good ones.
Try iDeators technologies in Mumbai for Digital marketing courses.
As long as people opt in and have a way to opt out it should be legal.

Not sure if there are any softwares but there may be some automation tools.
Thank you, guys! This helps!
You can now run ads with WhatsApp as the CTA inside Facebook.  Other than that, they must opt-in before your client can contact them.
I think there are no analysis and statistical software that provides insights for Whatsapp. Whatsapp Marketing is great as it helps you reach many individuals at no cost. But you can't understand to whom it have been to and whom not. Like Hubspot and others software provide services etc.

I am using it with some clients in Spain with very good results, as a substitute for the typical chats. It is true, that here whatsapp is widely used as a form of communication
You don't need Digital Sales course to become Google Ads Certified. Not a bad idea to have that certification though

Hope that helps.

Shashank
What year is it?
I have not had experience personally with this model, but some thoughts:

I would be a little bit wary of this approach and might even try to walk them through why a % of ad spend or even a flat monthly fee would be a better model.

Example: if you get paid $0.10 per click and drive 100,000 clicks, but none of them convert, you still get $10,000 and now the company doesn't have any leads (bad for them). Alternatively, if you get paid $10 per lead, and you are only able to drive 20 leads that month, your gross earnings are only $200 (bad for you).

I would walk them through a hybrid approach where you set a monthly or quarterly goal: set your monthly fee slightly below normal and then say "if I can surpass LY's clicks (or leads, whichever is the actual metric they mean), I will get an additional $X per click/lead."

This approach would lower the risk on your end, but give them confidence that you are still motivated to try and perform.


What happens when you spend $100k on your billing account and they only get them 4 leads?

Sounds like you're putting yourself on the hook for the entire budget if they don't like the results. 
Really not my area of knowledge but an interesting idea. How would you define "lead"? I like the transparency but feel like the client would see you as "click machine". 
If I was given enough control and visibility I’d consider it. The goal CPL would have to be reasonable enough. I’d forecast the cost per click, expected conversion rate, add my desired margin and if the math works, go for it. If the target cpl is too low for me to make money I’d pass.
Wow. If they want to pay you per click, jump on that. That's the dumbest method of measuring value. 
You have to set your contract up to get paid on results if you want to make the most money, only do this if you really are good. 

Set your metric to convert whether it be clicks, landing page views.

Think of it from a financial POV. They want to know what they are spending their money on, the better the numbers sound mixed with low risk value, ( commission based ) 


There is an element here about your relationship with the client, and your goals with them. 

Are you really looking to partner, and share risk and reward results? 

Are they looking to get a bunch of cheap leads? 

Are you looking to fleece them for every penny you can for however long (or short) they are a customer?

  
You can come up with meaningful, and 'good looking' pricing plans for any of those approaches. You could surely generate a ton of clicks, and charge them a good rate for it, and laugh all the way to the bank. But those clicks would likely be poor quality and not turn into revenue for your client. You could charge them the same per lead as you would per click, and work really hard and go broke trying to make your client happy. Or you could find a way to meet in the middle and have a good long term working relationship, but find you may never reach agreement on metrics and price. 

&#x200B;

As for measuring the value of a click or lead, you can use the 'reverse demand waterfall' technique to tell you how many clicks and leads they need, and how much they are worth. When you look at how much they cost, you can see immediately what is a good or bad use of those funds!
It's bad practice, don't devalue the service itself. 
Yes it is possible.. depends on your capacity to learn and grab.. you can refer some YouTube videos and blogs which focus on blueprint exams.. you can find sample questions on internet if you do little search.. i think the whole course is divided into little modules.. and each module has seperate exam and certificate.. so you can achieve them one by one...
Yes, it is possible but you have to put your time and efforts in Facebook Blueprint. Then you will be able to take the test with 1 or 2 weeks.
Is this for the paid test?
Where are you now that there aren’t any openings? PPC is red hot. Any major city will have it. If you love the idea of NYC then go for it, although you’ll probably have to pay your way there. There are other much cheaper major cities that would work just as well. 
Yes, you can do so. 
Exact same situation here. Really struggling to find a position doing PPC. I'm in Melbourne, Australia. Applying for 'Marketing Coordinator' jobs as well but haven't got an interview for any, seems like it's tough at the moment.
Try to land some freelance jobs on websites like upwork or other freelance platforms. You could also make posts in Facebook groups targetting Amazon/Ebay Sellers. If you have a certain size as an Amazon seller, you soon wanna expand your ads to google and other search engines. Hope I could give you  some inputs. :-)
Hadn't realised SocialBlade had those Insta insights thanks!
You have no idea how much I appreciate you for even thinking about doing this post! I just landed my first big gig & this post was exactly what I needed! Thank you!
If you have to ask without doing a shred of independent research beforehand, I don’t think digital marketing is for you. The whole industry is about research with trial and error.
Hubspot, Google AdWords, Google Analytics and Facebook Blueprint have free online classes. Hubspot has a particularly good one on Email Marketing. You can also train online to be Marketo or Salesforce certified, which is somewhat operational but in demand. If you’re more technically inclined, look into job descriptions for data analysts and start building yourself a learning plan. There are so many options!

I agree w the earlier comment to follow what interests you. Start there. Then once you’re in an entry level position, you can see the other digital jobs and get a better sense of which path or channel you want to pursue. 
If you've browsed this subreddit, you'll undoubtedly found the 1M+ threads on getting started. Not being rude, just want you to understand what you're really doing in digital marketing: 

&#x200B;

Research. If you can't find answers on your own, you're in the wrong business. 
Create content (make a blog, youtube channel, etc.) and start teaching yourself how to market it (social media, SEO, etc) using free educational resources online. Stay dedicated and consistent, marketing usually doesn't pay off immediately, it takes time. And/or get an entry level job in marketing.
Digital Marketing is a vast field and you cant just master all of it you need to figure out first which part of digital marketing you are focusing on. Let me list down some of them below  


1. SEO
2. SMM
3. Email Marketing
4. Content Marketing  


it is up to you where do you want to see yourself and whats your objective.  


Hope this helps
I would maybe see what it all includes and then start with one topic. For example there is social media, social media marketing, seo, sem, content marketing and so much more...

I am in digital marketing but I don't care about each of these things. Find out which topic is interesting to you before you buy a book.

Also, if you have the time and are interested in writing you could start a blog. The great thing about a blog is that it touches many of the digital marketing topics. 
How would you rank yourself? by making content about trending topics you will get ranked on google in no time literally now it's up to you how you manage to make content about trending topics
HubSpot and Google AdWords & Analytics. Start there, they have free certifications too. Also, read and listen to Neil Patel, you'll learn a lot and where the industry is going. 

Digital marketing covers a lot of areas, find what interests you the most and focus on those areas. 
Using linkedin , Search engine Land, Search Engine journal.. It's very useful to you.
Very first step is 

1. Create your website. 
2. Write some blog post
3. Try to rank them with good content. 
Well if you have the skills for it, even more if you have experience with what you want to do, there really isn't anything between you and a job. 

You just need to find someone who needs your service and is willing to pay.
First, get experience

Two, find clients. You can for example target prospects you ll like to work for. Audit their actions (website, fb page, seo ranking,...), find quick wins and long term improvements, then make them an offer they can t refuse.

But the quality of second point comes with first.
Upwork. Build your portfolio and chops at the same time.
You have to know WHICH problem you want to solve first. 

There are many to choose from. 

Learn how to solve just one for the moment, get some results and then show prospects your results. 

Don’t over complicate or overthink this stuff. 
[removed]
Reddit as a source is a great place to find amazing stories, experiences and opinions from real people. If I’m a car company making an electric car, I wanna understand the consumer POV in detail on the ups and downs of a Tesla. I could look at Twitter, but that is short form, maybe too quippy, I could look at Facebook but really I can’t because they shut off their API, and their data that you can use is pretty shit, but if I look at the users on r/Tesla I can start understanding better because reddit is anonymous (or as anonymous as any given user wants it to be) and people will open up. You can start building your campaign, your product, your ad, your copy, etc around how these people actually discuss their passions and what they would have liked to see (grievances with functions of their Tesla for example)

If you can find ways to start understanding well X user is posting in r/Tesla and is also posting in Y subreddit, you can start gaining understanding of interest affinities. 

Flip this example on to health care, there are tons of subs that are specific to health conditions and communities to help people connect with others to better live with their condition. People don’t as openly talk about their health on other social media, especially not long form. 

Lol I could go on. I work with tech that uses reddit data and I think it’s super super valuable and a super rich data set , it’s just about how you frame your query and what you’re hoping to answer. 


It doesn’t have to be more valuable; most sites use data aggregators anyway so reddit will have access to much of the same data as google/Facebook.  It’s just a different option and when prices appropriately it works.
Reddit users are the least valued social users 

[article](https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.cnbc.com/amp/2019/02/11/reddit-users-are-the-least-valuable-of-any-social-network.html) 
Reddit users are quite different than other social media players. 
Not sure if it is applicable but the google store, where you buy merch & gadgets allows free access to their analytics. Years of ecommerce data at your disposal.
First go on domain & hosting website and buy website & hosting to test marketing strategy.
When i was working at an agency i used mailchimp too and my first tests were going to the junk too.

Here are some points you might want to check / optimize that maybe can helps

1. Your email size
2. The subject line
3. Image (embedded or linked)
4. Your text is also important, some words are detected by mail software or antivirus and are classified as junk/spam.

&#x200B;

just try to play with those and see how the tests are being handled.

Hope this helps.
I understand your frustration. Sadly, many of us have been on that boat where emails don't end up in the right folder.

First, let me address some of the most common reasons why an email could land in the un-friendly zone, aka, spam.

Do I have your permission?
This is perhaps the biggest reason why emails are spammed. 
Did your recipients subscribe to your email?
Please ensure you send emails to subscribers.
The CAN SPAM law is pretty strict.

Fishy IP Address:
You know how they say, a bad record on your license can take a long time to go away?
If your IP Address was used for spam in the past, this could choke your current email metrics as well.

Low Open Rates:
Check your email metrics, and see the trend of your Open Rates. A consistently low open rates can kind of “suggest” the email providers to move to spam.

Low Mailbox Usage:
Check the ratio of active to inactive email accounts on your list.
Mailbox providers weigh in this aspect as well during their spam filtering process.
Try not sending emails to dormant email accounts- emails that have not been active for a long time.

Misleading Subject Lines:
Don’t promise the stars in your subject line. Be genuine!

Missing Physical Address:
Don’t breach the CAN-SPAM Act.
Ensure you add your physical address to the email.


Words Dear to Spam folder:

Steer clear of words such as amazing, dear friend, free, promise you, risk free, this is not spam, for only $, guaranteed or order now.

These words can lead your emails to the Spam folder.


Now, coming back to your question about tools to send “bulk” emails.

I’d still recommend not to send Bulk emails. Batch and Blast is a bad idea.

Try segmenting your email lists to make it smaller, and cleaner.

You can look for Bigg Mass Mailer, which is a free tool for generating mass mailings. 

Another such tool is called e-Campaign. It  is a full featured mass Email tool.

Hope that helps!
Shashank

Hey I don't know how your mails are going to spam but mailchimp is supposed to be one of the best out there when it come to email marketing. Try sending it out in Batches. If that does not work contact their support team.
So can you check the deliverability and spam rating on your company's domain? I wonder if your company email domain is on a bunch of blacklists. Problem is that if your company uses one single domain to send thousands of emails, overtime as they start bouncing, being marked spam, or being suppressed it hurts your deliverability. I would suggest that once you check out those metrics, and to possibly get a subdomain just for your team to use?
Others already provided great tips. But there is another one why your email might land in the spam folder.

If your email domain name start with something like support@ or info@ then email providers like Gmail will send them into spam.

You can try something like hello@ or {first\_name}@.
Is your sending IP good? You might have been blacklisted for some reason or another. Make sure you're sending from a good email address too.
Make sure: 

You have a domain email address/paid email address

You aren’t using gmail yahoo etc.

You don’t have a bunch of links on cold emails

Text emails convert higher because they don’t go to promotions tabs 

You have a physical address at the bottom of your email

They are subscribed to your email list
Your email's subject line is one of the crucial reason to make your email a spam. That's why you have to focus on your email subject. Don't make it too promotional for your users. Apart from the subject line, you should focus on your email body, try to make your email body personalized as per your users.
Hey there - the reputation that's associated with your sending IP is going to determine whether it lands in spam or not. My recommendation would be to implement a new mailer system (SendInBlue is good), and get on an incremental send volume strategy. My company does this sort of stuff. Feel free to PM me if you'd like to speak.
Yo.. welcome to the frustrating world of email marketing :o

First.. Your domain is blacklisted, not your IP.  If you're using mailchimp I assure you the IPs in their sending pool are clean w/ good rep. What to do? Either take the time and effort to get off the blacklist or just grab a new domain and start mailing again.

Second.. Stop using mailchimp. I'm assuming you're trying to do affiliate marketing. While you may get by for a while, eventually they will shut your account down. They do NOT like affiliate marketers on their ESP and even say so in their terms.

Thrid.. 100/150 bounces means you obviously bought some shitty list that was old or scraped. Stop that. This is a business so treat it that way. Either start building your own list or buy a quality list from a reputable seller.

Take care of these 3 things and then you can worry about inboxing.
Spam on what provider? Gmail will inevitably end up in promotions. Either way, don’t worry. People check “spam” regardless of it being a filter just to make sure they didn’t miss anything. If it’s worthwhile, they will see it. 
I got one just as a resume boost, and it didn't help at all. But you certainly do gain some valuable understanding of online performance and measurement
If you’re looking for a way into the industry while having little to no experience in digital, having a GA or AdWords certification goes a long way in demonstrating that you have interest and that you’ve taken concrete steps towards it.
It’s a great way to let future employers know that you’re an expert at google analytics. Studying for it is also a great way to get your skills to the next level. However, if you have no experience with GA yet, I would hold off on attempting the certificate. It gets technical and can be difficult if you aren’t well versed in the program. 
You can show it in interview time, but according to me its just a certificate that a passed the analytics exam,
resume
It's FREE(!!) and inherently validates a skill you have without the need for you to elaborate. 

"I'm a certified financial advisor" sounds a lot better than "I've handled people's money before" wouldn't you agree?
Displaying that you have nothing better to do with your "digital marketing skills" but take BS tests as if you were still in high school.
Making an ad takes a minute.  


A successful ad a bit longer...  


Keyword research and selection: 3-6 hours  


Creating Relevant ad groups: 30 minutes  


Say you have 10 keywords grouped in to 5 Ad groups.  


You then might prepare variations of ads for testing. For example if you want to test the first part of the headline:  


\-Ad 1: Headline1 A / Headline2 B / copy1 A / copy2 B  


\-Ad 2: Headline1 B / Headline2 B / copy1 A / copy2B  


If you prepare all of this for 5 ad groups, it involves writing 5 ads + 5 extra headline variations.  


You'd probably want to have further variations ready for testing.

Then for each ad group, you'd run the two ads on 50/50 rotation, until you have some sort of statistical significance.   


You'd remove the loser and test something else (Headline 2 or body copy 1 or 2 for instance).  


Optimizing the campaign as such depends on how much volume you can afford for the test.

If whoever is managing your AW isn't doing this in some form, fire him and get someone who is.  


  


  

It depends. What's the budget? Selection of keywords?  How many variations of copy? What's already been done in terms of campaign setup?  It can range anywhere from a few minutes to days based on what's already been done vs starting from scratch, as well as the size and scope of the business. 

Now if you're talking about writing the Google ad alone and getting it up, I'd say a few minutes if your copy is already ready. Getting that ad through approval and having it receive impressions can take anywhere from an hour to 24 hours depending on the account.
~~If it is on the Display network then it can take up to 3 days \[under review\]~~

&#x200B;

~~Hope it helps~~

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Thank you :)
It depends on a lot of things. How big your budget is, what are you targeting, how many ad groups and keywords, ad variations, etc. 

If it's simple or updating an old campaign, doesn't take long if you have some experience. 

Starting from scratch can take some time to ensure you have everything set correctly with good ad copy. 
Most small to medium campaigns (in terms of complexity) can be built out in under 4 hours if you're experienced and know your way around the tools. There are lots of variables, though. 
To create a campaign, one ad group with keywords and 3 text ads could take less than 20 minutes. Maybe longer to think about better ad copy.

But for literally one ad? Less than 5 minutes if you need to think about the ad copy.

Edit: Typo
The account build is the base of your Adwords success. An ad takes literally 2 minutes but if he's looking at the build/structure too then it makes sens. Plus, would this be his only project?
You will be playing with powerful analytical date and its uses, spend some time doing research before you actually spend money.
Creating an ad is easy & it will hardly take 1 hour if you are starting from scratch, rest depends on the type of business, its products & services and there are other factors which will affect the making of ad.

&#x200B;
this depends on what specifically your asking. Your colleague is probably referring to the account build which does take some time if you do your proper research and keyword/ad group builds. Getting everything prepared is the longest part. Once everything is built out uploading is not long at all. then you have the process of ad reviews once everything is turned on, which can take up to 24hrs for everything to start running. "everything looks more simple on youtube". 
Why do you want to get into digital marketing?
The absolute bare-bones of marketing are kind of a spectrum, you've got four kinds of marketing actions in any given campaign:

There's branding, where your objective is gaining notoriety and spreading an idea, affinity (how likely is X person to become a client) doesn't matter as much, you want to speak loud and wide, like a grenade.

Then there's traffic, you want people to be at the very least curious about you, you want to grab their attention. You don't care about selling just yet, but you want to be noticed.

After that comes sales/leads, you're looking for interested people to fullfil your survey, get an enquiry or straight up sell to them.

Finally there's an ROI strategy, you've put a lot of money into your campaigns and you want it back, you're looking for the people that you're certain will buy and love you, and you want to keep them close.

Strategies come and go, techniques and channels migrate, but if you keep this 4 kinds of action in mind, you'll know what you want and when you want it, that's the first and most important step to marketing.
Learn principles of marketing, advertising, and sales.
“How to win friends and influence people”  and “scientific advertising” are books I would start with. See if you can’t use some of you elective hours to take a Marketing Intro class or Buyer Psychology at your university.

Go to YouTube and search for videos by:

Profit Copilot, Miles Beckler, and there’s another channel I can’t remember but will edit this when I check YT.
Learn web optimization and look for bad designed sites online, offer free help
Don’t pay attention to CTR 
Hey, Digital Marketing is huge so it depends on what exactly you want to learn. You can start with generic DM courses and then find what interests you the most: Content Marketing, SEO, SMM, etc. After that my recommendation is to become an expert in one of those instead of learning a bit about everything.  
I personally learned Digital Marketing with various online courses on Udemy, and now I teach it in the University. PM me if you need some books.
Build a site. Try and rank it.

Pro tip: easier said that done.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Giveaways / paid shoutout / actually interacting with consistent people
What type of business do you have?
A few questions to help figure this out: 

1. How often are you posting?
2. Are you using relevant hashtags?
3. Are you engaging with your audience?
go to pages similar to yours, there you can find ppl interested in your content. follow them, like their contents and let them know you exist, they will surely come to your page to see who you are and if your content attracts them, they will follow you.

you can also send DM messages to them and invite them to your page.

you should always consider your posts, hashtags and so many other things.

there are some tools you can use to automatically do this stuff and help you find customers on IG. you can try them if interested.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Udemy.com is great - not free, but solid courses are often $10-$20. I just took one on digital marketing that I found crazy helpful. I’d say be willing to pay for a quality education resource. 

Congrats on the job! 
If you’re trying to be a jack-of-all-trades, I’d say learn Google Ads or email marketing next. 

If you’re trying to focus on just one and become an expert, I’d say Google Ads would be a solid focus that’s still very high in demand and slightly more intimidating to people than Facebook/insta marketing. 
Correctly creating detailed targeting campaigns on Facebook/IG will do WONDERS for you. Message me if you have questions. 8+ years in DM.
what about getting a Google Analytics certification?
Messaged you! 
Can I know about Google analytic Certification thanks in advance !
I am more than happy to chat. Ask anything you'd like!
Would be happy to help however I can. I'm a marketing manager with 4+ years of digital experience, shoot me a message if you'd like to chat!
Happy to help out :) Send me a PM ! 
Feel free to shoot me an PM! Been in the industry for 8+ years. Have started/sold numerous different companies and currently work as the lead for a large digital marketing team in Houston. 
start following brian dean or neil patel 
Feel free to send me a message. I'm a marketing manager in the software industry. I also own a marketing blog. 
It will count as coming from the .EDU domain 
Disqus is just the medium to login to that website for commenting. So, don't mix it up with the website. Your backlink will be counted from the .EDU website only.
If I was the hiring manager I’d care more about how applying a % your focus on Bing improved outcomes for the business.  If you can prove doing so increased audience, which increased search traffic and then that increased either funnel (leads/opportunities) or direct e-commerce transactions/revenue, that’s a great conversation.  You’d stand out as someone who is thorough and doesn’t leave money on the table for the business.  On the flip side, if you just say you got to #1 on Bing without explaining downstream outcomes I’d have a lot of questions, and you may or may not get a chance to answer those questions, which is not a good thing.  
Mindset question which may help:

Before thinking about Bing rankings in particular and whether to list it as an accomplishment, what if you zoomed out. Way out.

(You may have already done this but in case not yet...)

What’s the purpose of SEO? Arguable but I would say:

SEO is about connecting with people in all the relevant places they search.

But why?

To bring your message and value to more people who can benefit from learning about you, when they’re actively searching.

So, if you’re looking to describe your value on a resume, would it be worth framing it in terms of how many people (searchers) have you helped find you with your SEO approach? 

Eg. I helped reach 100k people searching for X topic find us, which continues now, using SEO that spans Google, Bing and other engines. This resulted in a business impact of...

Some of the specific parts of making this happen  include:
- Google visibility up 10%
- Bing visibility up 180%
- etc.
Agree with what’s been stated. 

Out of context, it’s worthless and potentially raises more negative questions.

If you can demonstrate that you found an untapped opportunity in Bing and created a strategy to capitalise, which had positive business impact, then it’s definitely an accomplishment 
I feel Biing and Duck Duck Go are giving a high competition to Google and more and more people are turning towards a search engine which doesn't compromise your data. Ranking on Bing can be considered an achievement and it can definitely be fruitful in the coming years. 
Who are you aiming your resume at?

Small business/company: Go for it, they might love it!

F500: They'll throw your resume away, the company will feel you're listing the best you can do - and the accomplishment is so small that you're not worth their time
Well it depends.  
Depends upon how much competition and associated traffic with those keywords. Also is that traffic converting into sales (or whatever goals your website have) or not.

You can put this on resume but be ready to answer the Questions in interview that how will you rank those keywords on Google. Remember that Google still holds approx 70% of traffic and being there on top is real achievement. 

  

For one it depends on what company you're working with. Is it a local company or a huge one?

Most companies ad agencies deal with on a regular basis are local. That being said, the real aim for most clients you work with is not to rank #1 on google/Bing/whatever platform you're working on. It's to get your client the most ROI possible (Return on Investment= (Revenue-costs/costs) basically making as much revenue as you can while also reducing costs as much as you can) . In many cases, sure, you could rank #1 or #2 on Bing or Google but that makes you end up paying more in cost per click than you should be paying. Basically you want your ad ranking to be between 3 and 6.  This gains your ad the same amount of visibility while paying less. Ranking high doesn't really mean much unless if your client is a huge business like best buy. 

That being said, most clients are local businesses so if I were you on that account , I'd reduce my cpc. And I would probably leave the rank #1 thing out of my resume because that only tells companies that you don't know how to truly optimize a campaign.

One thing that can impress a hiring manager is being able to explain how switching to bing ended up improving your ROI. Here's an example that I personally worked with.

I was working with a local pest control company as a client. My daily budget was $100 a day. However, because the space was so competitive on Google, the keywords that I was bidding on were too expensive. This is what resulted in me switching to Bing because bings target users as a whole are people aged 30 and up, which match the same target audience of the pest control company. Not only that, but the space of Bing is less competitive thereby driving down cost per click. Using that knowledge, I had more of a budget to work with and as a result, I was able to reduce my cost per conversion due to my limited budget before and increase my ROI by 39%.

That stuff is what's going to impress your hiring manager. 
Try out a few and see what you like. You have a lot of relevant experience that I didn’t have when I started so that’s a plus. I started off by emailing every single agency in my area, even if they didn’t have a job posted, then one hired me to work mostly on FB/Instagram ads for their clients. Since then I’ve learned a lot of the rest on the job. 

You can find jobs that are just one of the skills you listed above or jobs that want you to know a little of all of them. I think your skills you already have would go well with any of these areas. Do some more digging and see what you are the most interested in and start there. 
You should look into ad operations. It deals with a mix of campaign implementation, troubleshooting tags, and analytics. There’s a subreddit [r/adops](reddit.com/r/adops), check it out. 
Instagram. Create an Instagram traffic loop, in simple terms: 
Create content
Schedule 
Use hashtags
Revamp hashtags on previous posts every 4 days (especially low volume ones) 
Use followliker to automate like/follow etc
Use pixeled links to track and remarket
If I were in your shoes, I'd find all the keywords related to your course's NICHE

I would then filter the keywords based on SALES PROBABILITY (ie., is this the kind of keyword someone looking to enroll in a course would want to search for???)

I would get a RESOURCE type article written (or I'd do it myself) which upsells my mailing list through a FREE AUTORESPONDER mini-course

I would then promote there resource article through 'canned email responses' (not spam - the person seeking info would have to email the email address to get an email with my RESOURCE link on it)

Where would I promote the email address? Linkedin groups / FB groups /  'ask questions' using Twitter hashtags / etc

The key is to SHARE INFORMATION and ask questions to get email-based engagement

This technique works because you FILTER OUT people who aren't serious - you only get people who are MOTIVATED

The secret is to hit as many platforms with custom responses as possible

Shortcut? Hire a VA to do all the heavy lifting for you - you focus on  your email list automated updates so you CONVERT as much of your list members into UDEMY COURSE buyers. You can hire VAs from a wide range of platforms 

\- Fiverr (charge per hour - pay based on effort)

\- Freelancer (varies - can be monthly - pay based on effort) 

\- Cognoplus (pay based on results - $30  for quota based on 8 hours of work - day to day)

\- Upwork (great variety - make sure ask for case studies - can be hourly / daily / monthly)

The bottom line?  
Your email list will be your most important ASSET
Have you tried facebook ads? they run on facebook and instagram and let you target people based on psychographics. 
Would also like to see one
I would but it's proprietary plus most comes from our dashboard.

We've got Google and Bing search/shopping, YouTube, fb, ig, display, ctv, programmatic radio, snap chat, yelp, etc.

What are you looking to do? See how it's structured and KPIs? 
You should learn how to build these and make it better over time. This is important skill to develop in our industry.
Learn from those around you but don’t expect them to teach you everything. Be curious! 
I was prepared for a lot of things going into agency work but one thing I didn’t anticipate was how much disappointment there is. No matter how well you do, clients always want you to do better, and they’ll always set unrealistic targets and expect you to reach them because “you’re the expert”.

So learn to be confident that you’re doing a good job, while also being humble about what you still have to learn. Be pro-mistake and pro-honesty, and it’ll go a long way to helping you build relationships.

Learn basic statistics and how to make useable inferences from data.

Take time off. Leave on time. Go on holidays. Pace yourself. If something doesn’t need to absolutely be done by the end of the day, leave at 5.30pm and do it tomorrow.

Set expectations with your clients. Underpromise and overdeliver. Be strict with them about deadlines and workloads. Add an extra 20% of time into all of your project plans because they WILL fuck you around. Only allow them to make 2 corrections to your drafts. Question yourself and your team internally and acknowledge when you’ve made mistakes but present a united front externally. Be solutions-focused.

Be nice to your web developers and IT teams, both on yours and the client side. They will save your ass countless times.
Actual paid employment marketing work for clients has very little to do with what you read about marketing online from experts and gurus and blogs. It's about doing the work, consistently, thoroughly, and professionally. You'll spend a lot more time working with budgets, contracts, and tracking. 

My advice: don't burn out, set a nice steady rhythm, don't stress, and aim for slow steady progress. Try to get as close as you can to working with the agency's big clients, they'll look good on your resume, while little clients will drive you nuts.
Keep learning & keep reading. Sign up to good digital marketing newsletters and try and read them every day. Stay on top of trends.

Do that, and you’ll be invaluable.
Please be less chipper.
Good on you.

Your going to get a ton of digital resources (moz, Google analytics courses, FB blueprint etc) but don't forget me things theory - no matter how old it might feel! 

Search for good university course topics and Google them to get a broad understanding
There's plenty of free stuff to get you going. MailChimp autoresponder is free for up to 2000 subscribers.
There are so many free blogging sites, although you need to be careful if you start sending too much traffic.
Google itself has a lot of free resources beyond Gmail. Google Drive and Office are incredibly useful.

If you want more info on affiliate and email marketing, please let me know. There are many more free resources to help you get started.

Best of luck to you and remember that you will be spending time instead of money.
Hey -- Would need some more context to this, but I would recommend trying tutorials on YouTube or Linkedin. They both have Intro videos, and tutorials on things like creating campaign and setting KPI's. Truthfully, most people learn best through hands-on experiences, and I would actually recommend that more than anything else. Im sure you can reach out to some early start-up company, or someone that needs some extra help with their marketing efforts to see if you can get some exposure. Digital Marketing in 2019 is all data-driven, and you'll need to be able to provide both Quantitative and Qualitative analyses. May be a bit difficult without a college education first, but you never know. Good luck!
“:
>I was hoping to get some ideas about how we could use it better.

I would reach out to your CRM rep and get a refresher course on what you're paying for. Have them provide some examples of what it can do. 
If you know what regulars order or have a way to input transactional data for visitors into your CRM you will be able to provide a much more informed and personal experience from your CRM marketing Comms. This is the whole reason for having a CRM imho. Otherwise you are just blasting out blanket messages/newsletters. 

What would be better is to collect that sort of.transactional data and reach out to the client a day after their visit asking them for feedback on the appriate feedback medium. You can personalize down to dish if you know what the individual in the CRM ordered. You can ask how impressed their guests were with thier choice of restaurant. 

Adding personalisation should see your email, SMS and phone Comms from CRM campaigns increase in their engagement levels. 

As stated in other responses. Use the segmentation of the data to provide for better audience based targeting and lookalike creation. Depending on the volume you have you could get really creative and targeted for lookalike based targeting.

Note of caution. The more data you have and the more segmentation you subject your CRM to, the higher the margin of error for the audiences.


Email is the way to go. Newsletters for specials or monthly updates, coupons, special offers, etc. Long-term I would investigate a loyalty program.
Email automations and customer match audiences on Facebook when you have promotions running. You can set up 'store visit'' type campaigns targeting your database. 

I would also set up lookalike audiences with lead gen ads that trigger your email flow after a user submits their email. 
Which CRM and what package did you purchase?  
This will determine what your CRM is capable of doing.   
Also, what type of restaurant chain is it?
Emails but also using our existing lists to create lookalike/custom audiences on Google, Facebook and rtb networks. 
What kind of data are you able to collect?

Some ideas:

* If you can track when the customer visited, sending them a request to review on Google (with a coupon incentive for following through) would be a great way to bring in current and new customers.
* If you haven't had someone visit in a while, you could send a coupon for their next visit.
* Set up email campaigns that encourage customers to share deals with friends.
Is your POS connected to the CRM?
Don’t think so. Best practices are to make sure a site is indexed before you do any outreach to it. I’d imagine the same goes for the page containing the backlink. 
Have you thought of freelancing for businesses?  


It's something you can do from home, if you have testimonials, references, and pictures to share to prove that you actually have done it successfully, i'm sure there are a ton of business owners that would love to have the results that proper Web-design & SEO brings them.. You'd just have to learn how to sell a little ;)  


The only people i know that care about degrees are companies... real entrepreneurs or business owners don't care about that. They only care about results.

  
If you PM me i'd be happy to give you a guide i've been working on to get clients online... I'd be happy to share it with you for free because I'm still testing it out but I've already had some people get pretty good results with it... wouldn't mind a couple more testimonials for it though ;)   

I would advise you to start an account on Upwork & freelancer.com. It's a great start for recruiting new clients. 
Good luck. 
MarketingDaily is mu subredit, it might work for you. 
It becomes a spam fest. Just look at most low quality posts on marketing subreddits and that's about the "news" you're going to get.
R/Entrepreneur otherwise i could not find anything interesting. Blackhatworld.com and digitalpoint forums
Not a subreddit but zest.io might accomplish what you're looking for.
This post is extremely vague.

Based on what you have given us. Google Analytics.
This is something I'm looking into building. A SaaS solution where you can create, edit, copy, and publish ads to a variety of channels from one place. 

Not sure if this would be useful for others but I think it would help me when I'm building campaigns out on multiple channels and there's a lot of overlap.
Have you looked at WordStream? Is that along the lines of what you're looking for?

&#x200B;
I’ve got a way to aggregate your advertising dollars across many of those platforms. I don’t know if that’s ultimately what you’re looking to do but if you spend enough on those per month we can help. DM me.
IntelliAd?
&#x200B;

 Companies that hope to effectively spread the word about their offerings, attract customers, engage with them and ultimately retain them, need to adapt to these changes. Those that fail to do so will fall behind. There are great marketing softwares that can help companies remain relevant and master marketing in the digital age: 

&#x200B;

Marketo 

Vocus

HubSpot

Yesware

Salethru

Optimove

LocalVox

WordStream
No platform will cover every ad platform under the sun. Find one that covers your main channels and then do the rest on the native ad platforms.
Google Drive and Google Photos have been amazing for me.  There are a zillion solutions- look up "Digital Asset Managers." But after comparing price, storage, features Google Drive was best. 
Create a folder for a particular day and whatever you post should go in That folder. Make it a daily habit. This will give better organisation and will give you more insight on posts. 

Above method is better if you post stories on fb & insta. Stories and posts combine to make huge unsorted data
Google Drive is great, each client can have a "Photos" folder and you can dump everything in there. Drive File Stream allows you to access those files from your OS instead of using a browser.

Try to work on your file naming to include a date and some basic description. 

If you're a budding photographer then Adobe Lightroom is pretty affordable (they do a £10ish/month Lightroom and Photoshop package) and a fantastic organisation and editing tool. 

Tbh I'm saying all this when my own media is in an awful state and needs cleaning!

Also don't forget the rule - "two is one and one is none" when it comes to backup! If you have media you truly need safe then it needs to be backed up twice on 2 separate mediums. External drive/CD/NAS are all affordable options for this.
I use Google Drive too but I still like to stick to the habit of backing everything up/organising everything on physical drives too. 

&#x200B;

I make a folder for each client then tend to have subfolders of 'Output' (inside of which I have a folder for each blog post or video I've created etc. These folder titles always start with the date first so that they're easy to order chronologically), 'Client Reports', 'Initial Audit/Agreements' and then whatever else is required, client dependant. There's also a media file where I dump in any and all relevant images and media files. I make sure to split these into 'Used' and 'Unused' folders so that if I have a last minute request or some industry news appears that requires a quick post to social media etc, I can quickly see which images I have used and which are still available to me. 

&#x200B;

Just to make it easier as well I tend to tag anything already posted with a green tag and anything scheduled to go with an orange tag.  Red tags are used for things I've made but for whatever reason am not happy to send out. The plan is to tag them in red so that I might go back and edit or improve them at a later date but to be honest that rarely ever happens. 

&#x200B;

It was a real hassle to set this up at initially and I wish I'd done it from day one but now that it's done it is really useful.  I know I have a physical copy of all my client work on a harddrive at home and in another location just in case. I keep one drive as a master drive which is what I work off of and then each couple of weeks I'll copy everything across to the other drive, which autmatically takes out any duplicates. 

&#x200B;

There are definitely much easier ways to do it I know but it was hurting my head each time to get used to diffeent setups and search around for work. I feel like having a consistency between my layouts just puts my mind at ease and makes things easier to find. I think it's whatever works for you that's most important, just make sure that you find a setup that works and keep that style across all clients. 
I don't know company specifics, however I would reccomend going to a company in London.

Namely for the fact that it's the most competitive environment it's dog eat dog and you are going to learn from the best.
Hi Op. Just so I’m clear, will you be paid by the Erasmus + grant or are you looking for a paid internship?
[deleted]
In my last agency, we didn't pay much attention to college degrees or certifications (Our SVP had a bachelors in History / no certifications). It was entirely based on experience and how well the candidates articulated themselves (we paid attention and would ask 'can we see this person interacting with clients), and also strategies on the spot by presenting vague and bizarre situations. I guess it varies by agency though.
It may help you get an in-house position, where the marketing managers don't really know digital marketing and don't know any better.  It won't help you get a job at a high-level, experienced agency. An experienced manager will be able to ask you questions to gauge your knowledge. You take take a ton of these certifications and still not know what you're doing. 
Following
Is the graphic design degree from hub stop or is it a actual degree’frommcollege?
Where is the web dev certification from?
Zoom.us
I use both GoToWebinar and BrightTALK at work. I prefer GTW because it interfaces with our marketing automation software and it doesn’t force users to create an account in order to attend and view webinars. I received a lot of complaints on the latter from our customers. 

A lot of webinar platforms will let you test drive their software for a short period of time. 

I recommend creating a list of required features you need from a webinar platform and then go from there. 

I’ve been running webinars for the past 4ish years. If you have any questions, feel free to ask!
Join.me is pretty solid UX.  We use Skype and GoToMeeting internally.

I've never used a webinar tool that was light years ahead the competition.  All of them are generally alright but usually have some goofy user interface problems.  I work with a large variety of clients who aren't always tech savvy so having something simple that doesn't require a download is usually vital.  Join.Me or Skype are probably my favorite, GoToMeeting close 3rd.
Check Webinar Jam 
I just started using webinarjam for live and everwebinar for replays. Webinarjam is the cheapest in the game from what I found, only run a few webinars with it but so far it's great. 
I wouldn't worry so much about becoming obsolete, IMO you are more likely to stay ahead of the curve in terms of trends and progression etc. - if you want to anyway. 

I suspect your lens has been a bit distorted from working at google and expedia who are leading online businesses. There will also be many many companies lagging far behind so in five years time they won't even be where you are now. I recently left a multi billion dollar company who's digital strategy extended no further than a massively overpriced website, monthly facebook updates and a couple of things on linkedin. In 2023 they might be looking for a DMM role!
Why not build a business using your experience in Seo? That’s what I did. I started an ecommerce business ranking sites and selling products. At least that’ll stand better against the test of time, especially if you build a solid brand that customers are raving for.
[removed]
\>Do you think companies will still be hiring for exclusively SEO roles in 5 years from now?

 

Large enterprises and agencies want 2 things:

1. experience, which you have.
2. a lot of variance in your skill set, which is what you need to lift if you're exclusively SEO. 

freelance is irrelevant if you can generate results. if you say you can lift my business's web rank within the top 10 listings on a SERP have content appear in a featured snippet, I will take notice.
Definitely be careful with copyrighted/trademarked properties.  

You could, however, do something with a focus on toys or nostalgia.  You do have the ability to play around with phrases like "To infinity and beyond!" or "There's a snake in my boot!".
  

Using somebody else’s content can generate copyright issues; rather you can create your own character and use it for marketing. 
The easiest thing to do is make sure your google ads and google analytics are linked. Then you can create audiences with google analytics and use that for remarketing.
https://developers.google.com/adwords-remarketing-tag/parameters

Check out the "Other Sites" section.
[removed]
Maybe not yet.  You do get aggregate data regarding customer activities across platforms and browsers, but I think it will take time to make sense of that information.  After seeing your post, I checked out some articles and no one really knows what to do with this tool yet.  

I will be waiting until some experts unpack this tool's features.
Didn't know what this was, I Googled it. Thanks for writing this post, or I would not have found out!
Search should work with social and also with display to round it out.

Separate strategy and possibly targeting for every initiative. How many of the 200 are similar versus unique?

What's the general salary range? LinkedIn can be expensive but can be better than FB/IG for some things.

You definitely want a branding and awareness ever green campaign. Make sure you're winning impression share for your own name and then work out for certain keywords.

Another thing about search is do NOT forget Bing. They're 30% of the search market. Age skews a bit higher. Income skews higher and the cost is generally lower.

YouTube, Gmail can also fall under the search bucket.

I can do a GA/Social audit if you want a report of best practices as a premier Google, platinum bing and top tier FB partner. See how close you are to 100% best practices and then you can get into creative and really cool stuff. 
30% of budget on Various type of display, text ads on google. 

30% Then i would do youtube ads- 2nd biggest search engine

30% of budget for social media ads

10% other platforms like gmail, email marketing, affiliate marketing. 

 
remarketing is cheaper
It depends. Depends on the industry and the sales cycle. 
You mean for Facebook Ads or for Google Ads?
Here are some things to get you started on your path to being a Digital Marketing Generalist. These will give you a strong foundation for many concepts. Hopefully one of them will spur a specialty for you!  I've been a digital marketer for 10 years and have had to have deep knowledge of all of the below-listed categories. 

**GOOGLE CERTS**

* [YouTube Certification](https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/6145895?hl=en)
* [Google Digital Unlocked Certification](https://learndigital.withgoogle.com/digitalunlocked) 
* [Google Analytics Qualified Individual Certification](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/)
* [Mobile Advertising Course](https://support.google.com/partners/answer/6208386?hl=en)

**FACEBOOK CERTS & COURSES**

* [Facebook Advertising Core Competencies](https://www.facebook.com/micro_site/url/?click_creative_path[0]=link&click_from_context_menu=true&country=US&destination=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Furl%2F%3Fhref%3D%252Fbusiness%252Flearn%252Fcertification%252Fexams%252F310-101%26cmsid%3D184174329075631%26creative%3Dlink%26creative_detail%3D310_101_header_link_tc01%26create_type%26destination_cms_id%3D562724600781022%26orig_http_referrer%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fwww.facebook.com%252Fbusiness%252Flearn%252Fcertification%253Fref%253Dens_rdr%26search_session_id&event_type=click&last_nav_impression_id=0bmQhmRW2g5udHsP7&max_percent_page_viewed=36&max_viewport_height_px=631&max_viewport_width_px=1366&orig_http_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%3Fref%3Dens_rdr&orig_request_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%2Fexams&primary_cmsid=184174329075631&primary_content_locale=en_US&region=noam&scrolled=true&session_id=2dQYfDxQ9YNy5EVir&site=fb4b&extra_data[view_type]=initial_view&extra_data[site_section]=learn&extra_data[placement]=%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%2Fexams&extra_data[creative_detail]=310_101_header_link_tc01&extra_data[destination_cms_id]=562724600781022)
* [Facebook Certified Planning Professional](https://www.facebook.com/micro_site/url/?click_creative_path[0]=link&click_from_context_menu=true&country=US&destination=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Furl%2F%3Fhref%3D%252Fbusiness%252Flearn%252Fcertification%252Fexams%252F322-101%26cmsid%3D184174329075631%26creative%3Dlink%26creative_detail%3D322_101_header_link_tc01%26create_type%26destination_cms_id%3D174241143238179%26orig_http_referrer%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fwww.facebook.com%252Fbusiness%252Flearn%252Fcertification%253Fref%253Dens_rdr%26search_session_id&event_type=click&last_nav_impression_id=0bmQhmRW2g5udHsP7&max_percent_page_viewed=75&max_viewport_height_px=631&max_viewport_width_px=1366&orig_http_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%3Fref%3Dens_rdr&orig_request_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%2Fexams&primary_cmsid=184174329075631&primary_content_locale=en_US&region=noam&scrolled=true&session_id=2dQYfDxQ9YNy5EVir&site=fb4b&extra_data[view_type]=initial_view&extra_data[site_section]=learn&extra_data[placement]=%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%2Fexams&extra_data[creative_detail]=322_101_header_link_tc01&extra_data[destination_cms_id]=174241143238179)
* [Facebook Blueprint Course Catalog](https://www.facebookblueprint.com/student/catalog)

**HUBSPOT CERTS & COURSES (Great foundational resource)**

* [Inbound Marketing Certification](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/inbound-marketing)
* [Inbound Certification](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/inbound) (different from inbound marketing)
* [Email Marketing Certification](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/email-marketing)
* [Content Marketing Certification](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/content-marketing)

**MOZ CERTS & COURSES**

* [SEO starter pack ($150)](https://academy.moz.com/series/starter-pack)
* [Beginner's Guide to SEO](https://moz.com/beginners-guide-to-seo)

Good luck!
Google Analytics would be incredibly helpful as well. Data is a huge aspect of digital marketing; being able to analyze that data and make decisions based on that analysis is incredibly useful.

You could also look into getting certified on a marketing automation platform like Marketo or Pardot. 
I always say build your own website from scratch. It can be a website about you like a resume or a personal interest one, just build one. You will learn a lot, and it's starting to really be a requirement for people wanting DM jobs. You can use a content management system like wordpress and it's relatively easy. Guves uou an idea of basics to a website, and you'll learn how to use a CMS. I would also subscribe and read this everyday to get to know current news in DM, which i always ask candidates about...https://searchengineland.com and moz.com is great too.

I agree, basic Google ananytics understanding is huge. Get to know moz tools too.

Also good to know google keyword planner, google trends tool, and google and bing webmaster tools.

Moz has great beginners guide to seo to help you learn the basics and get to know terminology.

I would recommend also setting up a few google ppc ads and facebook and instagram ads for friends' sites or the new website you build. Just knowing how that logistically works and having some idea of how to set those ads up are huge. And you can run ads for cheap just to go through the excercise. Under 25 bucks cheap.

Also, get to know terms like CPC, CPA, click through rates, conversion rates if you dont yet. I find a lot of people don't know those things.

Best of luck! 
I think SEO knowledge is a must-have. In addition to Google AdWords, learn about Facebook advertising, Instagram advertising, Instagram influencers, Quora Influencers, community building, etc.

You would like to check out some blogs like neilpatel.com and backlinko.com. Additionally, blogs like the Ahrefs blog, Moz blog, search engine land, kissmetrics, contently, copyblogger, etc. can be of great help.

Not much of an expert, but that's pretty much it.

P.S. Forgot to add about video content. It's one of the must-have in this digital world. YouTube, the 2nd largest search engine, must be leveraged.
I've been wondering the same as well,  Paid media is a great area to learn, facebook blueprint is pretty straight forward info unfortunately its nothing close to the experience of actually running campaigns. I also had some experience with hubspot a few years ago and they have some great certificates 
From personal experience, Learn the following;
A marketing automation system (for example act-on (even tho act-on dont use act-on)). 

A webpage tool like WordPress( Yoast has a plugin to help with SEO) 

A CRM software like salesforce. 

A planning tool like asana or trello is always handy in a workplace. 



Try KWFinder
Spyfu or SEMrush
I agree that stomaching the cost of ahrefs is not something anyone wants to do, but it is hard helped me get a significant ROI for my clients, and is worth every dollar in my opinion. I am also getting ready to invest in CORA which is $250 a month to do single and double variable testing for the various ranking factors. 
SEMrush. If you're going to do it, do it right the first time. 
The cheapest ones are Semrush, SpyFu, iSpionage, Backlincoa and keywords planner.
The best tool is Google keywords planner.
You can take a free one month trial of SEMrush.
Hi,

best that I have used is Google Adwords Keyword Planner and Keyword Planner
This is a list of the 15 best keyword research tools in 2018.
These amazing tools have helped my organic traffic (zangi.com) grow by 25.54% over the last 6 months. 
1. Soovle - my favorite feature: Saved Suggestions
2. Jaaxy - my favorite feature: QSR (quoted search result)
3. Google Search Console - my favorite feature: Google Analytics + Google Search Console
4. Keyword Planner - my favorite feature: “Top of page bid”
* InfiniteSuggest.com
* K-Meta.com
* Keyword.io
* Keyworddit.com
* Keys4up.com
* KeywordRevealer.com
* KeywordShitter.com
* LSIKeywords.com
* Moz.com/Explorer
* RankSonic.com/generate-keywords-key.html
* Ubersuggest.org

All free
Check ubersuggest.io
I've seen this same issue before. It is almost always an issue with the store. Do you have a link to your website?
Do you have brand protections like negative keywords and app category exclusions? It’s easy to end up blowing your whole remarking budget on brietbart articles and candy crush ads that get 100% ignored or even make your customers angry because they see your brand as supporting politics that they don’t agree with. Exclusions are getting harder and harder to manage as google tries to push off more of its low quality traffic to small business due to proctor and gamble types starting to pay attention to performance instead of saying “woohoo we got 14 billion impressions so everything is obviously wonderful”. 

It sounds like you are putting value on advice Google is giving you, so that would explain it if you aren’t using exclusions. Your “Google team” has one goal, convince you to spend more money. 
>Facebook re-marketing has quite good and google ads remarketing has done nothing

This is what I found too. I binned Google for remarketing. 

In my opinion, remarketing is more about emotional spontaneous buying, and Google Ads just don't facilitate that type of marketing. 
Hi,

If you are going for remarketing campaign I would suggest going for adding offers and sale promotion to people. This will increase your conversion rates. Running the remarketing campaign needs more time than 1 month. Please try to improve your Website interface also.

&#x200B;
Consider e-mail marketing maybe? I had success with retargeting through e-mail marketing, especially when I offered discounts.
You need to implement a retargetting strategy. Drop me a message, if you need more details on that. It depends from website to website. Send me the website link. I will help you with retargetting.
I've had a few clients who adamantly swear by their Instagram bots. I always recommend hiring an intern or using an exterior contractor to do essentially the same thing. With that warning out of the way...

The use of an auto-responder is quite effective on places like LinkedIn, Facebook, and Twitter. However, Instagram is the exception. Instagram has a much better anti-spam algorithm and if you start to gain real traction and get a lot of followers this is the easiest way to get banned or shadow-banned. The only way to get banned faster is to like a thousand other posts a day.

TL;DR I wouldn't advise it.
I've been using Instazood near 6 months and run scheduling and promotion for 20 of my accounts that are using local IP for 8 of my accounts I can say I'm satisfied with this tools because it's fair and help you to improve your accounts every day.

I recommend it.
As an admin, I do manage 7 Instagram pages mainly about Fashions. I have used various bots for my job including Instabotfather, Instazood, Tagscout etc. The most important things that I have found so far are:

1. The bots are only for boosting interactions/engagement not getting us fake followers
2. While starting a bot for an Instagram account, we should not perform interaction on Instagram manually (once I had two of my accounts blocked temporarily)
3. In terms of performance, we should come back to check the conversion rate of the targets every week and delete the targets with lower conversion rate than 5%
4. We should set proxy for the optimum result, I have different accounts. For each I have set up a proxy to connect to Instagram from nearby IP.
5. We should always focus on the content and let the bot works the boring job of interactions.

In general, I have understood that regardless of the performance of the bot, if the admin of a specific page does not focus on content generating the bot is totally useless. On the other hand, if someone focuses on a page to simultaneously produce content and perform interactions on Instagram, they may need a 36 hours a day than 24 hours. I personally prefer using bots to save time and boost my accounts. Instabotfather is now the bot I choose to use because of the customer service but the other two are good as well.
Keep an eye on social media examiner and neal schaffer. They have good ones. 
If we're restricted to the first half of the year the Pubcon Florida, SMX West,  Digital Summit Phoenix. If you can go later in the year, do Ungagged, Pubcon Vegas. I haven't been to Mozcon in the past few years, and I've heard it's not as good as it was 
Traffic and Conversion February in San Diego.
I enjoyed Digital Summit. Martech Conf is a good one too. Biggest thing is to read if they allow self promotional pitches or only educational content. Don’t want to accidentally attend a living commercial. 
SMX is a top-tier search conference and our favorite. Digital Summit is a higher level marketing conference. Good keynotes but the session speakers can be really hit-or-miss. I wouldn't go again, but I'm sure that my job is different than yours.
To echo what others have said - SMX advanced is great as well as Digital Summit. 

If you're in the ecommerce space, IRCE in Chicago is a great one as well.
Hey Nany, I would say you just have started so if you focus on client to bring business initially, that will be great to start. It difficult to give exact price per hour or per month for those services. Market is highly competitive so you need to stand in market first, bring some clients and start making money. Once you have your brand strong, you may charge what you want to.
Hi Nany, how are you?

&#x200B;

To know how much to charge for your services, you can calculate it using a simple formula.

&#x200B;

You need to know first, **how much want you earn per month**?

&#x200B;

For example, if you want to earn 3000$ per month, working 22 days per month with 6 hours per day. You have 132 hours of work per month. So, you need to make 22,7$ per hour to reach 3000$ per month.

&#x200B;

Now you need to know, **how much time spend you at each job?**

&#x200B;

If you spend 5 hours over the week to creating content. You have to charge at minium 113$ for your job.

&#x200B;

That two questions are the answer of your question.

&#x200B;

\^J\^
Depends on the client, budget, and scope of work. Typically working of a percent with a minimum works best. 
What if you go to [Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/index.htm), search for copywriting or social media salaries in your city, take the average salary, triple it ( to incorporate taxes, business costs etc.) and divide it by 12 to get a monthly revenue goal
Using page level data to define the context of the page and then using that page level definition to serve contextually relevant ads. So, an article in USA Today about the LA Dodgers is about baseball, LA, the Dodgers and specific players. An advertiser who wants to sell Dodgers gear would appear on that page.
Contextual advertising is a way of marketing or advertising based on the context, an user has searched for. It shows you advertisements for the keywords that you have provided while searching for some article. For example, if you have searched about clothes, you will be shown advertisements related with clothing. 

Google Ad Sense is the first major contextual advertising network. These are the services that advertising agency might provide:

1. creation—what the advertisement looks like
2. media planning—where the advertisements are to be run; also known as "placements"
3. media buying—how the advertisements are paid for
Congrats!
take a look at Grapeshot, they do exactly this
Mangotools kw finder is great!
It looks great, although I have been actively using SEMRush so cant afford to subscribe to both. However VIDEO is the biggest and best advice I could give you. Focus on pain points and comparison why would I use you over SEMRush Moz or any other tools. Any questions do let me know. And remember the future is video!
If you mean keyword ranking, use SEMrush. You can choose which keywords you want to track for that domain, and it will show you the changes is SERP rankings. 
Ahrefs

or just Google console is enough most of the time. 
There are plenty of tools out there however they will cost you money most are around £75 or $99 depending on where you live. A quick list off the top of my head includes;
SEOMoz
SEMRush
SEO Profiler

Failing that good old excel and a few pain staking hours. Good luck.
If you're talking about tracking the Keyword Rankings of the website, then you can use the [**Rankwatch Tool**](https://www.rankwatch.com/) to track your keywords. It's quite a comprehensive tool that you can use to track the particular keywords you want to. You can use it to track the keyword rankings Before the optimization and then After it, so that you can compare what's your website's standings.Cheers!
I believe visually compelling products has more chances in going viral on social media. But still with enough creativity, traditional products can take advantage too.
Fashionable watch brands like MVMT have benefited massively.. really strong creative and clever targeting have made them hundreds of millions.. the watches themselves are poor quality
eCommerce is the industry that  most benefits from social media marketing.
That question is kinda vague, are you asking about companies that run ads, use affiliates, utilize it for social selling? Also what benefits are you talking about, increased sales, traffic, exposure? 

Social media marketing is a broad term for the marketing activities a company is using on the social media medium.  

 It's like asking what industries benefit the most from advertising. 
It is hard to answer which industry, but it is easier to answer what kind of company: Big/SME/Start-ups. Obviously SME and Start-ups got the most benefit from social media marketing where they can compete easier with big brands. In the past SMEs or Start-ups could not compete these giants where marketing channels were mostly offline.
Food/beverage industry. It’s huge for any restaurant to have a social media following that’s local and invigorated. 
Any business with products you can take pictures of easily, even better if the product is expensive! Particular industries that come to mind are restaurants, boutique retailers, luxury retailers, customizable promotional products,   


It's also worth noting that many service based industries can use social media to connect with their customers and drive additional referrals.
You need to have a fundamental understanding of marketing and advertising. Get a textbook or a classic marketing book. Afterwards, you’ll need to understand what digital marketing is. Taking Google garage, Hubspot, MOZ SEO guide, quick sprout guide to online marketing will help. Then you need to start implementing what you’re learning on a project. As far as certifications are concerned, people do care about them to some extent. AdWords and analytics certs are the most respected while everything else is secondary. It counts what the job post is asking. 
I am a digital marketing director and got my degree online from the University of Phoenix. What got me into the industry was an internship. I would recommend that over going back to school.
I'm the director of marketing for a national marketing agency. I market the marketing agency, and I don't have a degree. I don't think a masters in marketing is really all that neccesary to have a great marketing career since anything digital changes too quickly. What counts is experience. 

Build up your portfolio, especially if you're looking to work in visual media. Find some friends who need your services and charge them next to nothing (but do charge them. You're a pro.) Do the free certifications like HubSpot (for a clear understanding of the role visual media and content in general play in the marketing funnel), Google and Facebook for learning to run ads and navigate those platforms on behalf of a client. But don't waste the time you could be using to gain experience on a year plus spent in school. 

You'd be surprised at how many agencies/companies are in need of someone with your skills, even with limited work experience. 

&#x200B;
Marketing is an art. It should come naturally. If yes, then you don't need any degree. If you think a degree is hopding you back, then work on your confidence and self-esteem. 

That said, a degree just ensures that you have basic of marketing covered. But just like a good painter is not someone who knows all different types of painting out there but rather someone who knows the art of painting. 
Lol marketing doesn’t need a freeking masters I don’t care what degree you have if you can’t sell the products then you are as useless as they come.A agency wants experience and someone that cranks out the sales.I have no degree and I plan to work for a agency I’m not sure how hard it is to acquire one of these positions and I honestly don’t care.Because if it’s anything I learned in business is and marketing for 6 years is that a company wants a results and will do anything for them.I would personally not get a masters in marketing that is nonsense 
No any SEO tools or even Google Analytics provide exact details about your need. But, they always try to give some assumptions based on some scenario and their own algorithms. I have few website as well and when I look for reports into different tools, they always give me different figures. 

Here, I can give you one more idea about how to track 99% accurate details. You may create separate database table which you can record visitors information by getting details like IPaddress, DateTime, URL, Region based on IP address. By this way, you can easily look into exact report for you by writing sql query and know the result.

I have done this for my other website and daily checking report in admin section and happy to see the exact details I want.

I hope this help you

Thank you
Check out Supermetrics - you can pull all the data in there automatically.
Read Avinash’s blog for the best advice available on dashboards. 
Create something like a dashboard.

Have one table showing total campaign data.  Have about a month of data broken out by weeks.  So he can see how the campaign has been doing week over week.  So it would be 4 rows for the table.

Maybe have a few other tables.  Like top 10 keywords, top 10 creatives, top 10 landing pages, etc.


1: Know your customer base. Where do you want to start? Who are you targeting? What demographics is on your checklist? Best advice: Always start small. Forget about scaling and big releases (You don't have the resources to go big just yet).

2: What kind of "basic marketing" are you looking at? If you're looking to study how Digital Marketing works. Have a read through on my historical post in this sub section. Post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/DigitalMarketing/comments/8mrx78/beginners\_guide\_to\_digital\_marketingcontent/](https://www.reddit.com/r/DigitalMarketing/comments/8mrx78/beginners_guide_to_digital_marketingcontent/)

3: What do you meant by "attacking"? Perhaps further clarification on how you actually wants to "attack" "launch" your strategy onto the market with low-risk decision-making process? 

4: Read your competitors weakness. Most of them failed at it, use that and make it your own strength. If you can do that, congratulations. You have your own Unique Selling Proposition. Conclusion: Always listen and do your research on what the users truly wants.
I’ve really enjoyed working with the spy tool Adplexity, let me know if you’re interested and I’ll hook you up with a referral/discount link.
What do you mean by analytics? Do you mean analytical tools or the actual data?
Woorank, lipperhey, seositecheckup, varvy
Screaming frog. Semrush. Search metrics 
PM'd
Facebook 100%.

Facebook advertising tools mean you can promote your posts to the older demographic and other interests. (It's cheaper CPM's to the older market).

However I don't really know the product you are on about so maybe the biggest advantage is you can RETARGET the visitors of your website that come through any other method.
I'd go with Facebook and maybe Google+? Google+ is great for finding communities so if you have a specific target group in mind, you might be able to find a relevant community there.

Also, if there're resources to create video content, I suggest exploring youtube. It ranks well in Google search so making videos, maybe tutorials on using hemp or something can bring in new customers. 
Facebook is a social medium more so for millennials and generation X. While a good bit of users are still over the age of 65, there is not enough to consider Facebook a Baby boomer platform. Instagram your hitting a strong demographic of Generation Z, X and millennials. But more Generation Z utilizes Instagram.  As of 2018 an estimated 71% of US businesses are on Instagram. While 80% of Instagram users follow a business page. Using Hashtags on Instagram can be a VERY effective way to grow a business presence. As you can use 11+ hashtags and have them all be effective. While on Twitter I recommend only using two and Facebook... well there is no reason to use hashtags on Facebook in my opinion. Studies show little to no benefits to use hashtags on Facebook. At the end of the day it’s your call, but I think Instagram is an excellent platform to grow and audience. Connect the Instagram to your Facebook business page, and have them work together. You can crosspost very easily from Instagram to Facebook. 
LinkedIn possibly?
You could maybe also try Pinterest? (I'm from the Netherlands and I read that it is quite popular among the 50 plus age group)
you can try Instagram
Doesn’t matter what you sell or to whom. Be fun, homes, accessible, and show real value to potential clients. 
Hire an intern thats actually funny.

make them run the twitter while doing your fetch tasks.
Regularly posting content that is informative and relatable while making use of a good number of hashtags is the more effective way to increase your followers. 
Hire a company that does this for a living. It's not about promoting your product it's about engaging with the community and growing your online precence.
I believe effective short content which are regularly posted get you followers. Also, SMM over Twitter with niche customer base will be good.

I would say 10,000 followers with 20% active users is a good number to begin with in 1 month.
Change it to what YOU WANT not what he thinks for you

You should define your career growth not him

His role is to help you along the way
1. Define what you want out of the deal in term salary, role and responsibilities 
2. Like how do u foresee your career in 5 tests
3. Hope you have been tracking your work. You can use your data gather from your Analytics and other kpi tracking reports to present how you have been making revenue for your company.  And present this during your negotiation 

The easiest way is to have one central Facebook Business Manager with separate ad accounts for each client, using their payment method (credit card is easiest). They pay for their ad spend directly, and get invoiced.

If you only use one ad account for multiple clients, you can only have one payment method attached, so you'll need to charge yourself and then charge your clients yourself - which is messy if you have multiple clients.
I think you are better off having the client create their account in The Business Manager. They enter their credit card details etc. They add you as an admin to the page. You can work on ads for that page without being financially responsible for their ad spend. 
I prefer to have my clients pay Google and Facebook directly, rather than I pay it and they pay me back. Reduces my risk if they decide to not pay and saves me money on merchant processing fees. I'm happy to let the client enter their billing information themselves or they can provide it to me and I enter it for them.
Our clients have a predetermined monthly ad spend. We front that budget and include it in our monthly invoice.
I tell my client they can do it either via a screen share, or if they're comfortable, over the phone.
You're doing it the right way though. Admin rights to their PAGE, but ad ACCOUNT on your Business Manager.
For as long as I have done this I set my clients up on a monthly budget with management fee included. I pay for the placements myself and get paid from my clients once a month.
I would pay on behalf of my clients with a rewards credit card, then bill the client for the balance. 

It was free money. If you're not doing it this way as an individual then you're missing out. 
Two ways to go about this.

One have them reimburse you by sending a report to them of the amount spent at the end of each month or 

Two have them fill out a credit authorization form for you to use 
Instagram. The younger demographic and music go hand and hand. Instagram is a great way to promote your SoundCloud and post clips of your music along with an eye catching image can be very effective. All you have to do to start promoting on Instagram is go to your settings and turn your account into a business account. Start promoting your posts with unique hashtags add a $10 budget to the post and you can attract new followers/fans/buyers. 
Short clips of your songs on IG/FB with advertising budget aimed at people who are fans of similar artists.

If you have a website and a gig page set up your facebook pixel and you can retarget those website visitors (who live within 5km of your gig venues) with ads for them too.

Maybe a Youtube vlog-like series where its more behind the scenes and you recording, trying to make it as an artist.

Imagine if you had access to hundreds of hours of videos of your favourite artists before they made it!
Create YouTube videos with you just performing your material, doesn't have to be fancy, only has to be good music. Have an Instagram as well, like others here advised, it's what people use a lot and you can post your performance clips to stories
Don't pay for anything, check out Facebook blueprint and hubspot is also good
[removed]
Dan Henry. Also Facebook blueprint
I'm afraid you're going to get a lot of guru's chiming in with their course, so beware!

I used Billy Gene's course Clicks into Customers which was awesome. Right now I have about 8 clients nearing 6 figures by the end of the year. I say that as no affiliate what so ever, just highly recommended. He is a little explicit at times so you have to be ok with that.
[removed]
  Facebook blueprint and hubspot are  good 
Adespresso academy or Wordstream PPC university have some decent content
Pay for social ads - they work if you target with a clear offer and intention.

Just trying to blow things up by getting likes is fluffy and useless. Spend money to make money.
 I feel the same way to be honest. I have seen it with a few clients and now with my client-side gig. 

I think the value is branding. I feel like the best strategy is to pick one channel and just out all your effort there. 

I agree, unless you’re a bigger brand with tens of thousands of followers or more it isn’t worth it... of course you have to put in the work to actually get that many followers, but niche companies will probably never achieve that.

Unfortunately I think it’s easy for unsophisticated managers / owners to put too much weight on social followers as a metric, when for a lot of companies social users may not convert in any meaningful quantity.

Of course it totally depends on the market. I’ve made purchases from products seen on social ads, but that’s certainly the exception for me.

I think it’s best to pick one or two key networks where your customers are likely to be (research needed) and spend time there, but not too much time. A few hours a week is probably overkill for most small businesses.
Definitely depends on the company and industry. Social is great for branding and engagement but depending on the business that isn’t worth time and money. I do think it’s important to have a presence though, such as having a profile and not being active, just so people can check in (if necessary) or review if you don’t have a budget for social. 
Like all marketing campaigns it depends entirely on the vertical / clients / campaign objectives. If it wasn't worth it, advertisers wouldn't use it.
I agree, but I've seen social media bring direct sales in some cases! I help manage the FB page of a pizza place nearby, and they have a special offer that runs all year long. If you can finish their biggest pizza in under 20 minutes, you get it for free. We got a few customers that went and did it based on a post I made about it! It was cool to see that direct return but it doesn't happen often.
I do believe that SM brings value, but it depends on which marketing strategies / sources of traffic you prioritize. Also, it depends on the type of business you're promoting.

When I'm working with visually attractive content, Instagram brings the greatest traffic. When I'm doing all the same with financial companies - IG doesn't work, but FB and LinkedIn do their best.

Simply put, everything depends on your mission and type of business. It's up to no one else but you to figure out what works best for your particular company / business.
 Well that’s not always the case. I’ve seen businesses using solely social media to acquire customers and visitors.

If you’re there for the sake of being there then of course it won’t work. Having a profile and sharing some updates won’t get you far. 

You have to grow a qualified base by adding value, helping others and being responsive. Depending on your field (and if you’re starting from scratch) , try to find communities that are alread interested in similar products/services that you offer. Try not to talk about your product/service at first so that people can trust you. Then when you suggest or mention your product/service start with “why”; meaning what you’re offering can add to others, and be cool about it. Don’t sound commercial.

If you already have followers then engage with them by offering tips on how to get certain things done. Show them some ‘behind the scenes” of your workday. Steal the competition’s best ideas (they are your biggest inspiration). 

And remember to be consistent. This takes time but it will take you where you want to go. 

I can recommend some articles if you want to!
[removed]
Ahrefs tool is best for checking backlinks, competitor keyword analysis, keywords position and broken links..etc
**"SEMRUSH"** is the best tool to analysis all your website report (traffic, traffic source, competitor traffic, keyword position)
I prefer ahrefs as it just opens up the whole site skeleton of the website and not just backlinks. top pages, keywords, broken links, new and old backlinks, social shares and much more.
Comscore is the gold standard but it’s not cheap so it’s pretty much for larger orgs.  Similarweb is probably the best low-cost alternative.  
Ahref gives you the best information about your stats! 
Actually I prefer to use SEO Quake. It is one of the effective weapons associated with SEMRush. You can use its add-on (Chrome and Mozilla) with or without SEMRush. Count it as a tool to audit the complete web page or website in terms of SEO ranking. And, as a mobile version, it is only able to give a full report, named as- Page SEO Audit Report. 

You can also try these tools for better SEO competitive research:

1. **Alexa**: Alexa allows tracking global web traffic of your own and competitor websites. “Information is power,” and Alexa is one of those must-have tools that you can use to transform data into competitive value for your business.
2. **SE Ranking** – track rankings: SE Ranking helps you monitor competitors’ search rankings on any engines and target regions, up to five projects per website.
3. **InfiniGraph** – watch social media trends: InfiniGraph tracks trends in social media circles. It combines consumer-to-brand interactions in real time and uses targeting to find out what brands and content are popular right now.
4. **Monitor Backlinks** – look at backlink profiles: Monitor Backlinks is new to the market, but has already earned a great reputation. You can track various competitors’ backlinks, disclose a bunch of negative backlinks, and find quality ones.
5. **SpyFu** – view competitor keywords: SpyFu is a powerful tool that lets you view all data on competitors’ keywords in both organic search and AdWords – and get even more related keywords. You just need to add competitors’ keywords and get an overall view of their strategy.
6. **Followerwonk** – analyze Twitter followers: Follower wonk analyzes any Twitter profile for free to boost your Twitter marketing strategies. It provides a wide range of details, like recent tweets, bios, locations, and the authority of followers, to get the overall picture of your competitors’ Twitter presence.
We use zoho projects in our organization. It pretty much does all the things you asked for. Project and task management, Hours tracking, resource allocation and profitability.

Depends on the client really. Microsoft planner, data studio, sheets and sometimes a plain old notebook. 
We use a variety of tools, we manage our projects on a tool called monday.com which really allows us to know what stage a certain project is in should it require multiple team members to complete it. In terms of tracking hours, we don't actually do that but we do set tight deadlines in our project workflow so that everyone can plan their other tasks...this is not a comprehensive answer but I hope that it has shed some sort of light!

Harvest for billable hours...
Try using Zoho with a Premium or Enterprise plan. It offers a Time Sheet Approval feature that offers a Start-and-Stop Timer icon just next to some of your tasks which helps you to keep track of the time you work on a particular task. It also has the option for log hours where you need to insert the hours manually by typing them.   
You could use [trackingtime.co](https://trackingtime.co) along with Asana to track and bill hours. 
We use Teamdeck, as it has all resource management features. Resource allocation/scheduling, timesheets and time tracking, leave management, reports - it saves us nearly $10k/month as we don't have to use any other tools for that and we spend less time on back and forth communication.
Make sure that your content matches up well with what you are promoting in your ads. The relevancy will help lower your bounce rate.

Also, don't use Google autosuggested keywords as that will eat up your budget and make it harder to compete on keywords that will give you a strong ROI. Google wants you to spend more on their platform, not less, and the suggested keywords will dominate your budget.

My best advice is try to put yourself in the mind of someone looking for your product or service. How would they type a string of words to find your product? Ask friends and family how they would search for it and try to craft keywords around that. 
Would make sure to check campaign settings. Google likes to set defaults to what maximizes their inventory. Two big ones to check are:  
  
Search Partners - This will show your search ads on non-google properties. I have never seen this do well in terms of conversions. It will, however, open up the volume and drive lower CPCs.  
  
Location Options - Make sure to set this to 'People in your targeted locations' not 'People in, or who show interest in, your targeted locations (recommended)' or 'People searching for your targeted locations'  
  
Once you have done proper keyword research (you can use the keyword tool AdWords provides) mapped out a plan and properly set up the campaigns it is critical to make a commitment of budget and time. It can be 7 or 30 days depending on what you are spending.  
  
The reason this is important is that you need enough data collection for statistical significance to make informed decisions and optimizations need to be applied incrementally and individually so that you can find what works and what doesn't.  
  
Reactionary preemptive campaign optimization will never allow you to build campaigns that consistently drive conversions.
Drop me a DM and I will take a look and suggest few changes where required. No charges. All I ask is a healthy review in return. Thanks!
I like SEMRush, if you can afford the $99 a month, you should see some good results and it makes keyword planning & reporting so much easier.

A few things to consider when analysing your PPC campaigns:

* Site speed, massively important these days, use Google's SiteSpeed tool to make sure both desktop and mobile aren't throwing up any flags
* What are you tracking as a conversion? Is your tracking setup correctly? Do a trial conversion and see if it gets picked up \(keep in mind, you will never successfully track 100&#37; of visitors, typically you miss \+/\- 10&#37;, higher if you have a young / tech demographic \(with browser tracking disabled\)
* Site content \- AdWords will give you a &#37; of how relevant they class your landing pages are, use it. Make sure the page\(s\) your paying to promote are relevant to the PPC ad, don't expect users to click past the front page, they expect to see everything they need on the first click.
* Ad copy \- short, snippy and to the point. Don't use buzzwords and you need to split test a wide range of ads when starting off so you know what works, and what doesn't.
* One of the best ways to get inspiration is to look at your competitors, what are they doing for PPC? Don't copy it, but it will give you some pointers.
If you had no conversion ! First make sure that there are no other problems (like broken button, maybe compatibility to a certain OS,  or maybe too much info in a form) first be sure that there are no design flaws or broken code
Build a better funnel. 0 conversions are either bounces because the ad doesnt match, or they are clicking away because of something else.

Try to go the "have a freebie on me" route. Give something in return for an email address. Maybe push it a little and also ask to like the facebook page. 

Maybe you are a shitty writer (you probably aren't) but try different approaches, and look critical to your work. Free articles, ebooks, free shipping if you order now, coupons.. endless opportunities. Run different campaigns at different times and see how they perform. 

Goodluck.
It's so easy to make it less efficient and more costly.
[Imran md ali ](http://www.bootcampmastermindprogram.com/bootcamp) from Singapore can help you.
Gross Profit = Gross Revenue * Profit Margin

(Sales Growth - Marketing Cost) / Marketing Cost = ROI

If you can plug in the numbers for how much margin you make on each dress, and how sales increase from the $5000 marketing spend, you can come up with a good ROI. Use previous campaigns as a benchmark (if they let you have that data). u/UsamaDM gave good advice. Focus on the two channels that will work the best. I haven't worked in fashion so I can't give specific industry advice, so I'll just say that remarketing usually works well for campaigns, and paid social seems to work well, too. Good luck.

That totally depends on the niche and audience and where can you find the most audience.
I would suggest you to go for maximum 2 channels in the start or you would exhaust yourself and your budget without getting any results.
Facebook and Google are your biggest channels. You can literally spend your entire budget on these two platforms and you won't reach a ceiling in a while. 

It sounds like you're doing ecommerce. Your spend can go on Facebook and Google entirely, and you can utilize tools like ActiveCampaign for drip emails (email marketing). 

I would focus on Dynamic Product Ads (DPAs) on Facebook and Dynamic Display Ads (DDAs) on Google. Set up a product catalog of the products that your client is selling (on both Facebook and Google). The idea is when someone sees your first ad and click on it, they will go to your site and if they don't buy the product they looked at, you can remarket that same product to them by using DPA/DDAs. To target these sort of people, you would use custom audiences feature in Facebook and use events to target the people who initiated checkout and didn't purchase (abandoned carts) or saw a product and didn't purchase. 

Hope this helps you. I wish I had this advice when I was at your stage of an interview :) Good luck!
Are they giving you any other information about the campaigns? Reach, conversion, cost per result, size of their marketing lists, etc?
Vanity. People will share photos and articles they are mentioned in. 

In your situation you're not going to be able to get people to care otherwise, at least not without a newsworthy event happening at your school.


Weird you get downvoted, this is a pretty good topic/question. Also, you seem to be quite knowledgeable about digital marketing, which puts you in a good position to easily get a job after graduating (or whilst studying even).

Back to your question. I really like the other comment in this thread, use vanity post to attract viewership. 

I would be inclined to believe that your potential user segment would be quite limited to students that are currently studying at your highschool and to some extent the parents/teachers of these students.

Knowing that you have been collecting data (good work on that btw) I would reccomend pumping out more articles that have a higher CTR and low bounce rate.

In terms of promoting the newspaper, considering its a highschool papaer and there probably is no budget for paid promotion, you need as much exposure as possible for free (organically). I.e. social posts linking your site, edm's, maybe even see if you can find students with a high social reach (instagram/facebook/snapchat) and organise some sort of unpaid shoutout.
Integrate your site with a messenger chatbot. Post the qr code on your school page or around school. 
Are the  guidelines on topics of students interest? Because I think that this is very important. Can you use the social media that your classmates use, like Instagram, Facebook , twitter for spread the content. Use memes and images to attract them. **Do you need go where they are!** 
You may also want to check out Google Trends (can specifically filter Youtube). It won't show you exact search numbers each month, but it will show you people's interest in that subject over time. So if you see that interest has been declining for past few years, maybe it's not worth to create a video on that subject https://trends.google.com

I never used Ubersuggest but it looks legit and since it's on Neil Patel's website it has to be somewhat decent.
Check out the Keywords Everywhere extension for Chrome. 
I would just use the AdWords keyword explorer, it would include data from YouTube. 

Competition number is just how many other people tend to bid on that keyword, if a lot of people bid it would have high competition.
I love MorningFame.

TubeBuddy and VidIQ are good too.

Autocomplete and Google Trends help a lot too.
My practice has been, to enter seeding keywords in Youtube search bar and pick popular long tail searches from there. and the tool I have used is "Heartbeat" Chrome Extension which could do following things for you, and it helped me.

 YouTube \- Tag Finder to help users with related video and search traffic. \- Find YouTube tags for better SEO and discoverability! \- option to force grid or list view for subscriptions \- View videos that are trending now in your areas of interest! \-\- Add your own website to YouTube as part of your channel page \- Search YouTube comments more easily \- manage comments and subscribers \- View trending YouTube videos in your subscriptions feed. \- Built in link shortner for YouTube descriptions .
 
[Vid.IQ](https://Vid.IQ) is pretty good tool for Youtube keyword research, they have a free trial so you can just export all the keywords from there and cancel the account. 

If you are serious about Youtube, I'd still recommend keeping the account though as they have some good features for SEO and offer mass optimisation tools that can save a lot of time. 
I would spend my time getting the Google Analytics and Google AdWords certifications instead. They’re free and are more widely known and applicable to a variety of marketing jobs. 
Facebook blueprint and Hubspot certs have been enough for me in my job hunts, but it does depend on your career goals. 
I'm happy working in-house and working my way up. I don't think I'd have a lot of success breaking into a huge household agency with my current certifications, but I'm okay with that.
It’s as worthless as my toilet paper.  If you like throwing money away like Jordan Belfort did during the yacht scene of Wolf of Wallstreet, then by all means it’s worth it. You’re better off applying what you’ve learned from Google, Hubspot, Facebook Blueprint courses and some notable marketing books and online guides on your own projects, an internship, a local business or a non profit online marketing endeavors. If you do that and really apply your self in building a portfolio you’ll get hired relatively quickly. I just saved you thousands of dollars. 
What are you expecting from the certification? Knowledge, or a resume booster?
Going against the grain here... I think doing the certification at Cornell is a great idea if you’re looking to get a job. It’s a prestigious and trustworthy school that you can slap on your resume and, as someone who has a digital marketing certificate from Waterloo up here in Canada, loads of jobs ask and are wowed by it. 

You’re paying for the school’s branding and prestige on your resume. Hiring managers and owners like to see education that comes from institutions they know with bonus points for ones they respect. 
[removed]
I looked at that program too.
I have also looked at 

UCI	         Digital Marketing	Certificate	$3,450.00	
Emeritus	Digital/Social Media	Certificate	$1,400.00			
eCornell	Digital Marketing	Certificate	$7200/$500 Month
Springboard	Digital Marketing	Certificate	$3500/$300 
Hey there, so Buffer is a social media scheduling tool, while Hubspot is a CRM/marketing automation and Marketo is a marketing automation platform. There's tons of information out there regarding Marketo & Hubspot \- Just Google a bit and you'll find plenty of information. 

I'm partial to Buffer over Hootsuite, especially with Buffer's support of Instagram posting. However they are both similar tools with comparable features & benefits.
Hey, our business uses HubSpot and we love it. We use it to schedule social media posts, create landing pages and blog posts, update our contact list and much more. It certainty makes our life easier because we can post and track everything within one platform. Hope this helps! 
Hi,

I am using Marketo from last one year, it is the most Advanced Marketing Automation tool I have ever used.

Hubspot is cheap but in terms of  Functionality and advance features Marketo beats it anytime.

I don't knwo why you have added Buffer here.

The list should be something like this 

Marketo vs Pardot vs Eloqua

Leadssquared, Getresponce, Aweber etc.


There are a few out there, I've used Pardot, Marketo, and HubSpot. Buffer is not marketing automation (I've also used this tool for social). Marketo is very powerful, but quite hard to learn. I prefer HubSpot or Pardot to be honest.
My wife is training on Marketo right now and hates it. She uses it for email marketing and says it’s not set up like any other ESP she has used. 
I use a combination of products that are a bit more specialized and less expensive.  

Active campaign for marketing automation.

Serpbook for search engine tracking.
Pipedrive as a CRM for recording deals. 

Blu180 puts together a nice dashboard  with all that plus social media content citation and scheduling. 

Is very nice. 

Edit: trialed Hubspot. Liked it. But found it  too general and expensive for the value it provides.
Hey, I use Hubspot for all of my marketing activities. Hubspot is an amazing software which helps me manage my blogs, create landing pages with amazing templates available, lets my email automation work smoothly, plus it also shows how my website has performed with some amazing analytics. I also like how they have workflows and lead forms set up. A great tool one must use for their marketing purposes. I instead of buffer, use SocialPilot. Another amazing social media scheduling and analytics tool which saves me atleast 5 hours every week off social media. It has a very nice branding feature which lets me brand my own name on Facebook which has helped my increase my visibility on Facebook. 
I love my Buffer cause it saves my time - I can plane posts for a week just in half an hour. For SMM-managers Buffer is a real god blessing tool)
The best lessons you're going to get are from actually doing- go market some products on the internet my dude. Grow some businesses, make some money. You're gonna do awesome 
Go out have fun. Enjoy your time in real world. Work is enough! Doesn't deserve to go deep in it!
Probably have your posts go through a editor/copywriter
Schools that teach digital marketing will always be behind on current trends since the internet is changing so fast. I’d recommend against it. 
Marketing is marketing. I’d encourage you to get a degree in Marketing (rather than “digital” marketing), then apply your knowledge and skill up if required.

Marketing is at the core of every business, so you should be okay for jobs if you apply yourself.
I've been a buy side AdOps specialist for almost 6 years now, and my degree is in Sport Administration.  I think that any business degree, probably also focusing in marketing would be sufficient.  Obviously different schools have different degree types and stuff, but it's up to you in the end!
You’re better off getting a degree in marketing so you have a good foundation. You can learn so much more in a digital internship than a degree since as someone else mentioned schools have a hard time keeping up with the latest trends and tech changes. 
Hell no, if you like to throw money away then by all means do so. A marketing degree is better but you don’t need that either. If you really want to get a paying job, just start building knowledge of how these digital platforms work with the training provided from Google, Facebook, Hubspot and then start building a portfolio of actual digital work you have done.  Main thing is getting good knowledge and theory and then executing in this field. I would recommend job shadowing to see if this something you’ll like where you’ll further see the skills involved. 
No! Go after marketing in general to get the bigger picture. You can learn platforms & tools in practice when you start working. It’s changing too fast and everything you’ll learn will become obsolete by the time you get on the job market.

Meanwhile, marketing in general will give you foundation to understand human behavior and edge over ppl with tech and digital formal education when climbing the ladder...
I graduated in com last spring and now I manage a $1.1 m digital ad budget. If I could go back and do it all over again, I would switch to strat com. Numbers were never my strong point but now that I do what I do, you have to be on top of your game with numbers. Also I would have tried to take some classes that taught some basic JavaScript. 
Hey mate, have worked in digital marketing for the last 10+ years. Picking up a qualification in digital marketing from a university will help, but only at a very surface-level for the job descriptions that ask for "marketing or communications-related degree" preferred.

If you're serious about getting into the game, and want to get a step-up while you're still studying, I'd advise doing a few of the following things:

- start blogging or building an online presence. This could be as simple as following a few influencers on Twitter and contributing (constructively) to their posts, or as advanced as starting your own website and sharing your thoughts around a niche. Here's a good example of a gent who started while at uni, but has built a name for himself now: http://pigsdontfly.com/2007/10/introduction.html

- look to build something and "get on the tools" (that's industry parlance). Is there something you can sell online? Writing copy and trying to sell things on ebay? Have you ever tried to set up a Shopify? It's very easy to set up and get familiar with Facebook Ads Manager or Google AdWords - have you tried selling something with them?

- start making connections now. Create a LinkedIn profile and get acquainted with people in the industry in your area. You can do this by attending local meetups, or simply checking with some people that work at agencies/startups/businesses and hitting them up for career advice. It's terrifying at first, but for every 5-10 people you approach for tips (be succinct) you'll likely get 1-2 nuggets of wisdom that will help you further.

It's a fun industry and there's a HEAP you can learn to create value for your clients. Go for it :)
Yes Digital Marketing Is Good Thing If You Do Very Well It Is A Awesome Career.
Post Graduation In Digital Marketing Is Not Required.

If You Work Very Well It Have Nice Job Security 
No, Google is your friend.
Congratulations! Glad you posted this. I always sell myself short. Going to apply for a job now!
I do this, I help a SaaS (Software As A Service) company understand user behavior, I measure CLTV (Customer Lifetime Value) from different sources, ads efficiency and more.

What kind of companies does your company help? E-commerce, SaaS?

If you serve ecommerce stores: check Nick Di Sabato
If you serve SaaS companies: Check Price intelligently and also Microconf Videos.

If you serve something else, let me know and I'll try to help you get the right resources for you.
I’m studying marketing at Uni and did a subject last semester on metrics. We got given a set of data and had to answer a series of questions on different attributes and see what was and wasn’t related (regression etc). I’d be happy to send you the materials if you like? 
Very informative post. All 11 SEO Techniques are very useful for getting ranking and increase the business.
“Machine Learning”

Every conference attended this year spent at least 3 hours on the topic with no real insight. 
Wibbly Bobbly Slithery-Doo!
The biggest push from google is "AI". I've also heard from agencies "We're data driven".
Digital media is media...or some BS like that.
I’ve seen ‘context is king’. That refers to everything that we need to know to create relevant and timely content.
The web is full of content now, marketers need to figure out how to stand out from the noise for their target.
I am getting a WHOLE lot of "full funnel" approach...which would be way better if people actually did it, but instead they just spit this out at people.



I just heard of "pull" and "push" marketing nomenclatures for the first time instead of the normal "inbound" and "outbound". 
“Respect the Platform”
Native Advertising

Surprised that didn't catch on more. Referring to marketing that doesn't look like marketing esp. on social platforms.
Don't know why but *crunch the data* gets on my nerves.
"No Content without Video"
You know how in a social situation two people can say absolutely the same thing in virtually the same situation, but when one of them says it, it will be funny, and when the other does it, it will not be as funny. 

The same goes for marketing "catchphrases". It highly depends on who says it. Thus even if you go with a great "catchphrase" it may not work for your company, or for your audience. 
Everybody can think of a phrase like "think different" but not for everyone it will stay the same way as it stays for apple. 

VR, AI, experiences, targeting, segmentation, data. 
"Automation" 
You should definitely bring it up. It's possible they're taking advantage of you being nice, it's just as possible they don't even realize you aren't making more.

Otherwise I'd scope out some other jobs, if you've been with them for a while and been doing good work you likely deserve more than 35,000 anyways.
My suggestion is to be informed:
1) how much is payed someone in your role on the market?
2) which is the range you think it's worth for you?
3) which is the very minimum goal you have?
4) there are some benefits you may consider instead of just money?

Collect this informations the next step will be read some negotiation books like the ones by Stuart Diamond for example, just to enter in the mood of negotiation. I also suggest to calculate how much you gain by hour per work, extra work and time spent on transportation. It's useful if you must compare two jobs or roles.

Third step will be to bring the subject with your supervisor and make your request, highlight your success and ask at least for a plan to reach your goal.

Good luck
yes, get another job (offer extended and accepted)  that pays more then quit, with 2 weeks notice and a whole lotta class. good luck

0. Get as many free certifications as possible and learn new shit in your free time.
1. Apply to work at all of their competitors.
2. Do phone interviews during your lunch break.
3. Use a doctors appointment, family emergency, or vacation day to interview on site with whoever wants to talk.
4. Get an offer on paper for more than you currently work.
5. ???
6. Profit.
7. Repeat.
Look at the market value for what your job title or duties are. Additionally, show the value you are bringing and that you are willing to do more but for an increase.

Problem is, if this is a high-profile company and they are paying peanuts they probably do not value digital marketing as much as they should and they most likely won't pay more.

I recommend continuing to increase your market value, get certifications, keep learning, applying new techniques and apply for new jobs. 

I was in a similar situation, then nearly doubled my salary by taking my knowledge elsewhere. 
io like the ones were ppl fill out of the form
Here are some tips for paid landing pages which can help you earn profit - 

1. Keep your PPC landing page relevant to the keywords you are bidding on
2. Write content for your target personas, not for the general public
3. Write a headline so strong the user can’t do anything but convert
4. Use unique imagery that will connect with your target personas
5. Strategically position your landing page elements to drive conversions
6. Use your PPC keywords as the fuel for your landing page content
7. Include trust signals to create an emotional connection with users
8. Prove your worth with: shares, case studies, reviews, followers & more
9. Ensure the length of your PPC landing page matches your overall goals
10. Create compelling call to actions that are effortless to complete
Have you done the google digital garage and analytics academy courses? They are free and good for beginners.
Learn from all the free courses such as Google's Digital Garage etc and impliment what you learn towards a personal objective! Learn through trial and error and proceed accordingly! 
Let me know if you find anything
There's a free trial course for a month on Shaw academy! Google it! It's live webinars 
You can check out coursera. They have both free and paid courses. 
A great resource for understanding Search Engine Optimization is available on Moz. The link is https://moz.com/beginners-guide-to-seo. This gives an overview in a free textbook format of how to get websites ranking on search engines which is an integral part to digital marketing. A great addition to this would be getting certified as a google Adwords partner. Google has a free extensive study guide laid out for taking the test as well located on their Adwords platform. These two tools together will give you a substantial head start. Also, being certified on google Adwords will go a long way on a resume. I also have a page dedicated to various digital marketing degree programs located in Michigan that are definitely worth the money. https://intelligentdesigndigitalmarketing.com/michigan-digital-marketing-degree-programs
There are some great courses. I agree with @kbechard15 about the Moz beginning guide to SEO It's really comprehensive and just got an update. 
In addition to learning about digital marketing, do some real-world learning Try building and optimizing a website. Get really comfortable with Google Analytics. Follow blogs and listen to podcasts as this industry changes fast. 
Here's a list of a few other resources you may find helpful. 
https://www.odddogmedia.com/advice/career-advice-for-online-marketing/
Best of luck!
Start with the basics from good sources like moz.com
You can learn from youtube videos, much better than just PDFs.

I teach digital marketing courses at teachable.com and I share valuable content for free in my youtube channel.

Join facebook groups and get to know latest trends from popular digital marketing blogs.

You can attend free webinars, Q & A sessions to get guidance from industry experts.

Cheers
Jordan Steen
http://cerealentrepreneur.academy
Start listening to “The Marketing Book Podcast”. Marketing changed a lot, it's all about adding value to people's lives now. Make sure what you're learning is still relevant, otherwise it will do your future career more harm then good.
https://www.artillerymarketing.com/marketing-book-podcast
You can find free courses on Udemy, Alison, Coursera. I also recommend reading news and articles, since digital is changing very rapidly. I would suggest sources such as: Adweek, TechCrunch, Adage, Digiday, Marketingland, MediaPost, eMarketer

I will Suggest you the best and most refreshed courses where you will learn practically everything what you require, to become a Digital Marketing and SEO specialist:
. 6 Years of Online Marketing Success & Failure (FREE)
And, the Learn list of all SEO and Digital Marketing Courses.
What are you trying to gain with it? More knowledge on how to use Facebook ads effectively, or recognition from employers? 
I wouldn't get bogged down with long courses unless it was for impressing an employer. If you are running your own agency there are quicker and more profit focused methods.
I skimmed through it and would recommend for some general knowledge, but nothing much in depth. There are several different types of content that go in depth with FB marketing. I would recommend podcast *social media marketer* by Mike Stelznik. The book *give* can't remember who... and [kissmetrics blog](https://blog.kissmetrics.com/facebook-marketing/).
It depends on your current knowledge or if you think future clients or employers would look at this. I've completed all of them and encouraged others to do the same. Although they are lengthy they provide a lot of information if you are new to running ads or business manager in general 
I have some spare time on my hands, gonna try doing it. 
At the very least it's writing a series of words that makes sense. 
collecting big data.. which are helpful in driving a business plan to increase ROI
An account manager is usually the human interface for an ad campaign. Someone who speaks directly with the client, which would usually be an advertiser, and reports on performance, coordinates creative, tracking, budgets, integration, etc.

Basically you do the behind the scenes work so the customer doesn't have to, and can just tell you what they need via email or call.

Tasks are pretty much setting up campaigns, coordinating with all the relevant departments in your company on behalf of the client, providing reports, troubleshooting, answering questions. It's mostly a lot of emails, logging into things, uploading media, downloading spreadsheets, doing something to them and re-uploading them somewhere else.

Most important traits I think are organization, personability, reliability, and general familiarity with marketing, internet, Excel, and knowing a shit ton of three-letter-acronyms.

An agency will either hire someone with AM, advertiser, publisher, or network/platform experience, or a recent grad or something that seems generally bright and trainable.
Basically the middle man between a client and the agency. Usually puts work into production and makes sure that accounts are still profitable while also trying to upsell additional marketing jobs when and if necessary. 
Account managers walk around thinking they are God's gift to earth. They are usually married and either have kids or are trying to have kids. If it wasn't for their significant other they probably wouldn't be able to function. 

They don't know how to use computers or most technology. 

Oh and they manage accounts. 
This isn't exactly what you're talking about but there have definitely been some concerns with commerce companies and the way they access your data. Especially with increasingly sophisticated algorithms doing most of the heavy lifting, companies can track you across the Internet and figure out a lot of demographic data and match that to your purchase and viewing history. There's the classic example of Target sending coupons for pregnancy related products to a young woman before she even knew she was pregnant, for instance. 

Recently, I listened to a podcast episode interviewing some people who researched stuff like this. They talked about how algorithms and control over digital interfaces allow for companies to present fixed and dynamic prices depending on the market and product. For instance, for a necessity like gasoline, they predicted that algorithms would eventually stabilize the price of gas across different companies because any price change would cause an instant adjustment in the other companies' prices. For dynamic prices, an example would be a company like Amazon being able to present different prices to different customers–perhaps a higher price tag for a user more likely to have money or to be highly likely to purchase that product no matter what or a lower price tag to compel someone to purchase it who was on the fence. As this kind of big data progresses, shopping as we know it could very well end because we wouldn't be able to hunt for deals–the deals would hunt us. 

Definitely some ethical gray areas with privacy but also with manipulation and discrimination. I think we're looking at an imminent future where the quality of a product is likely going to be less important than the ability and power companies have to market that product and leverage their audience using data they've gathered on them. And if not that, we might end up with a select few companies–Amazon, Google, Facebook–having effective monopolies on the presentation and distribution of information about products and, well, everything else too. Marketing might only be as good as what the platforms allow. 

If you're interested, the podcast episode was from [Cited](http://citedpodcast.com/online-retailers-ripped-off-holidays/) and they interview the authors of *Virtual Competition: The Promise and Perils of the Algorithm-Driven Economy*. 
The only ethical question in my mind is, do digital products (that are based on or in place of physical products) have any adverse effect on the person they are sold to? If so, are the consumers aware of this possibility? And, have all measures been taken to avoid the inevitable calamity of removing physicality from the process? If these questions aren't answered to satisfaction then it's going to be difficult to get to "what we should do about it." 

Video games and their distribution aren't as big a deal in this regard to me as food or other consumables, though they can't really be replaced with "digital" versions, only digital purchasing, which doesn't degrade the value of the product itself.

The cost of digital products inherently will degrade some value of the product, if for no other reason than a physical item can be exchanged or rearranged in its construction such that it retains some imputed value longer than a purely digital file.

That's my view on it.
Face filter for geo filter? 

I've been using Geo-filters for over a year now, my CPM is around $0.75 

Face filters and video ads may cost as high as $35 CPM. 
If you are talking about geo filters, they are not too expensive and fairly manageable for even small businesses. Check out pricing here:

https://www.snapchat.com/ads/sponsored-lenses
Yep, not geofilters but actual lenses. AR, face-morphing etc.
The only thing that can improve conversions, from an SEO standpoint, is relevance. Obviously if your site content is relevant to the search terms you rank for, you're going to get higher conversions.

Try to rank for long-tail keywords with strong action words. For example; buy, purchase, register, hire. You can also try to rank for more top-of-funnel keywords like "cheapest, best price, where to get, what is.. etc." site visitors from ToF keywords may not convert into customers on first visit, but they're primed for remarketing or signing up to your newsletter.
There are many ways to increase conversion rate as:

1. Tell visitors exactly what they are going to get. Provide visitors with absolutely everything they need to know about your product: What are the features and benefits? What does it look like? What are the possible uses? Who will benefit most from it? How will it be delivered?
 
2. Include the privacy statement on opt-in forms.
Your privacy policy can have a huge impact on your email conversions. In one changing the wording just slightly resulted in a 19 percent increase in conversions.

3. Meet the expectation of ppc visitors. If visitors are coming to your landing page via a PPC ad, make sure your ad copy is consistent with your landing page copy. Your ad should tell them about services once they click through to your site.

4. Use high quality images & CTA button for different links.


Hi Ryan,
SEO is a long term strategy and currently works as a better as "assisted conversion" step depending on your industry. If your content in unique and relevant people will find it and share / link etc. If you want a free SEO analysis of your website send me the link at amarkrishnajha at gmail dot com. To stay updated with SEO rand other digital marketing hot topics give www.dgitalerts.com a spin. You will find all latest and relevant articles and popular twitter chat tweets http://dgitalerts.com/seo/ 
Hello, 
I've done some freelance work with managing Adwords accounts. Here's my suggested best approach with charging clients.
There are two schools of thoughts. 
1. Commission per win.
2. Per hour basis.
3. % overcharge. 

Commission per win. 
This discipline is most advisable with start-ups that have e-commerce, PaaS, and SaaS business models. They like to scale their business and want an expert on board that would drive results and don't mind expanding new markets. Make sure before winning one of these clients to make sure you have done your homework, and their product/service/brand has an online demand, and you can do this with an extensive keyword search. Have a solid grasp of what the cost of acquisition could be and set one as a target.  Also make sure you have access to their Analytics tools, to make sure you monitor attribution here, as it's common for users to purchase on the 2nd or 3rd visit. A high commission is needed to ensure to cover your costs since repeat business or (Monthly recurring revenue) MRR will not have any commission. Commission per win is a good strategy to make sure that you both create a win-win formula. Depending on the business you work with, but usually, a good recipe is for every successful purchase, the trial I would take 1-2 dollars depending on the company. SaaS/PaaS businesses are willing to give you more than e-commerce businesses, and this strategy works well with them. Expect them to offer you a full-time job if you're doing well.  


Per hour.
This one is useful for start-ups that target businesses and want to solidify their SEO and SEM strategy. I would charge:
2 hours for keyword research
4 hours setting up the ads
2 hour each week optimising the ads. 
It all up to you to decide on how much you want to charge per hour, as this is very relevant to your and where you live, and what you think you worth. Naturally start low and go high. 

It's also a good strategy if the start up your working with is just starting, and it's unclear if they will disrupt a market or change user attitude towards a competing product. 

%Overchage: Is an excellent way to get rid of anyone you don't want to work with and very rarely does anyone accept this,  since you will always be pushing budgets up, and the KPI's and performance metric associated with the payout. If a Marketing budget is 10,000 per month, you will change an extra 2,000 on top of that for your efforts.  

A few things to consider:
1. The better the SEO of the website the easier your job will be. So make sure to SEO audit each site before any action.

2. Google has 70% Market share and controls most search traffic. However, Bing is 30% of the market and has a lower cost per click. You should not neglect Bing. Baidu is great if you are targeting China, and has a lower cost per click.

3. Master effective CTA's as this is part of your work that will excite people to take action. A CTA's can make a significant difference. 

4. Display ads do excellent for e-commerce, especially if you retarget users who've seen a product. 

5. Digital Marketing is not just about SEM; it's so much more than that. You will need (Social media, SEO, SEM, Marketing automation, community, content, analytics) to gain mastery in this world. 

6. The next certificate you need is Google analytics. 

Reference
http://www.ebizmba.com/articles/search-engines
https://analyticsacademy.withgoogle.com/


I'm interested in this sort of thing as well. When charging someone for AdWords work, or even Facebook ads, does the fee typically include the ad spend or is that extra? 

So if I charge someone day, $500 to manage their Facebook ads, does the ad spend come out of the $500 or do they pay me the balance of whatever is spent?
Some interesting ideas there. Thanks for the link!
The latter, you can't calculate averages the first way.
Thank you A_Cheeky_Greek and 3a5m, that confirms what I've heard from other sources too.
I use Bluehost. I like their customer support. 
Hostgator has always been solid for our dev environments. Though we moved to AWS recently for production and the speed is unreal. 
Hostgator shared hosting for 0.5 to 1M page views a month.
Thank you for not just listing but also giving details. Made it 10x worth it.
That was a useful article. Thanks for sharing
I intend to start blogging soon. I will keep these pointers in mind. Just 'saved' this article. 
IMO i think they can be very rewarding. It is an opportunity for a business to portray themselves as a market leader in their field.
I have a rather poor experience with LinkedIn groups. I haven't started one myself but am a member of a few social media marketing groups and the sad reality was that most of the people in those groups was there simply to promote their own content. Basically, there were tens or hundreds of articles posted daily with almost no engagement, or some spam account commenting something like "Excellent coverage" next to each and every post.
Years ago I joined lots of groups related to e-commerce, online marketing, social media, and advertising. Nothing of value from them, ever. Nothing but spam. Come to think of it, that pretty much sums up my whole LinkedIn experience. 
It’s true that a lot of people are sceptical and think that linkedin groups are useless but [studies](http://www.brainstorm-digital.co.uk/blog/b2c-companies-can-use-linkedin-busting-myth/) have shown that many B2B and B2C companies are converting some huge potential using properly their linkedin groups. It’s not easy to grow and manage a group there, it takes [time and efforts](http://rainmaker.fm/audio/link/linkedin-groups-2/). 
Besides Linkedin have made some policies recently that might enhance the user experience.
As for the spams it needs to be moderators on each group so people don’t get reluctant and a spammy group is in my opinion a group that is not well managed.
I really don't know if such thing exists. But I think it's easier to answer with some guidance.

Are you a content marketer? Generalist? Keyword / SEO ? PPC ? Analytics?

In my experience working with B2B agencies and within the technology space, your portfolio are the people who recommend you and love to work with you. 

Have your own site done right, have a few case studies for work you have done. Do you create content, link or include that, do you speak as an expert? Include any videos or press.
Stay focused and don't try and do everything. 

It's a gastopub and not a Fortune 500 company so you may just need one or two channels (Instagram and Yelp?) where you focus in on refining the pubs image.  

A few posts a week; real, attractive photos of real people (with their permission) and some responsiveness to comments and reviews should be sufficient. Maybe once in a while do something fun like photo competition and offer a valuable prize to get people in the door. Focus on humor and authenticity more than comprehensiveness and buzzwords. 

Read Gary Vaynerchuk too.
Be interactive - use Twitter polls and get people to suggest names for new cocktails, vote for their favourite snack, etc.
Good luck with your new adventure in social media marketing for your gastropub. Here is a cool idea for you, why not seek out some people in your area that are hyper active on social media, people who have more than the standard 400 facebook friends on Facebook, those that get like 20+ likes on Instagram with each post and invite them in for dinner asking them if they would like to share their experience of your business, the food, the atmosphere all those things that make your place really great. A genuine post of someone really enjoying themselves can be worth £5000 in online advertising for sure. Something to think about! Oh and please share your gastropub social accounts would love to see how they are coming on. www.peterdoakglobal.com 
Create a monthly spreadsheet in excel with what you will be posting on a daily basis for each channel. Pre-load it and you will stay ahead of the game. Use an automation service to post most of the stuff for you. Although, you will want to engage with people who comment + interact with your posts. 
Who are your customers, and what platforms are they on?

What are your competitors doing on social?

Answering those two questions should help you develop your content themes and calendar. 
Hey, this sounds like my life! <- formally creative technologist at global ad agencies
Nice, thanks for this.
Great article for anyone who hasn't used Google analytics or doesn't understand its capabilities. Thanks for sharing!
Excellent guide for beginners', thank you for writing and sharing this information.  I have shared it on my Google+ ... :)
is it really necessary to list business on several business listing website to get more traffic ?
I started making way more money after becoming a consultant and charging on % ad spend for this reason.
I work in this field and I do not get a percentage of increased revenue.  I optimize the full funnel though and there are so many people and processes involved it would be unfair to say that I should get a cut of increases and not everyone else involved.  I believe I am well compensated through the standard bonus structure plus I like the stability.  What you’re describing is a sales style compensation model which can have big booms and busts that are often frankly out of your control.
Sometimes a performance based bonus. And maybe equity at a startup.
A percentage of revenue is very uncommon for employees. Maybe in a small startup or as a freelancer/agency.

Normally performances based bonuses have a number of goals (like +x% ROAS, +y% conversation rate in segment z, etc.) tied to a fixed amount of money.
My agency charges % of ad spend and then I get a salary that never budges, even when spend scales hundreds of thousands of dollars. 🙃 never heard of getting %of revenue increases in performance marketing though.
You will find freelance work without experience if you work hard for it. And it might suck at the beginning: things will be harder than you thought and you won't know how to communicate with your first client or what to say but it's normal, just don't give up.

There are a bunch of other platforms out there you can try I am personally working on PeoplePerHour and I think it's better suited for you as a beginner because they have a system that encourages new freelancers to apply and find jobs and they offer free proposals you could use to apply to projects as opposed to Upwork who charge even for that.

That said, don't think much just start. Take some relatively simple projects in the beginning and  go for bigger challenges  as you gain experience and confidence.

You also need to understand that freelance success isn't much about skills but really about good communication and going the extra mile to help the clients solve their problems.

Think of yourself as an entrepreneur and do everything you can to make your client happy.

But don't sell yourself too short. Not all clients are equal. Some cheap clients you want to avoid because they're toxic and will suck life out of you avoid them at all cost. Know what the type of clients you want to work with. Attract them and build longlasting relationships with them
Make sure you have a portfolio of some work, whether paid/commissioned or not, and start a conversation with folks. You may have to pitch yourself a little bit, but you’re a marketer! Tell your story and have a hook, and you’ll do great.
Why would someone pay you?
Firstly you need to know what you want to specialise in then study it well. Next apply what you learnt by getting real clients offer to do it for free, get results for your client repeat and build yout portfolio until the market thinks you are worth something

Or 

Build your own blog or ecommerce store to gain experience and show what you capable of 

Its alot of hard work gd luck
I got my first copywriting job on Upwork without any experience. It was a $30 job for a blog post. It took me about 1-2 weeks to get my first client.

  
You have two ways to represent yourself to a client.

1) Your profile

2) Your proposal

  
At this point, you could have the best profile in the world but it doesn't mean anything until you get reviews. Just say what problem faces your client and say you how you will help them solve it. Keep it simple.  


Your proposal is what gets your foot in the door. Read each job post carefully. When you send the proposal, talk about what problem they're having and suggest how they can solve it. Basically provide value and not sell yourself. Your aim is to get a response.

&#x200B;

Also, if you can create a sample that's like what they are looking for (for example, if they need email marketing help for ecommerce sales, write an ecommerce sales letter) that provides value. Don't go crazy, just enough to show your skills.  


Doing that every proposal will sharpen your own digital marketing skills.  


Honestly, Upwork is great for experience but I'd start looking elsewhere if you really want to dive into freelance work.
If they don’t ask you to sign any conflict of interest document, you’re good. If they do, it’ll be up to you to decide if they extra money is worth not being able to work with other potential clients in the same industry. 

I’ve done the exact thing you’re doing and I’ve only had 1 situation like this, and it was for a Law Firm. So I understood the conflict of interest. Although it was only for a specific type of law, so it wasn’t a big deal for me.
If you aren't signing anything that states otherwise in contracts, do what you want! Good luck (:
Do what you want. There's no such thing as conflict of interest in digital marketing.
Legally, if you din´t have to sign any "no competition clause" or something like that, then you are all set. Morally I wouldn´t do it, but it´s your call.
Are you using a CRM or any type of marketing automation software?
You’re not referring to a “media buyer” are you?
Ad exchange? DSP? Arbitrage? Syndication?
If you want local traffic, start with Googles local business and Yelp, both are free.   Most people use their mobile phones when they're out and about looking for liquor, your store will show up on google if they're in the area.

Social Media will not help you.  liquor stores are everywhere and all the same.  People are not loyal to one store, they'll go where its closes. So 99% of your business will be from locals.

If you want to pay, you could make a facebook page and target your local audience.
Digital marketing definitely works. 

I’d assume branding your store would be your best interest. 

You want your store and what you offer to stand out. 

Social media ads will work and so will email marketing. 

I’d make sure your store is easily found on Google when searching businesses and don’t bother with Yelp. 

Yelp is a waste of money and doesn’t have your best interest in mind. 

Focus on your unique selling point and utilize this for advertising. 

Focus on branding your store, getting your name out.

Utilize social media to post organically and gain a following. 

Digital marketing works and if you’re not doing it, you’re losing. 

—
Mike

PS: I’ll speak plainly here... Who gives a fxck if there’s a liquor store on every corner. Don’t play or fall in to the competition game. What matters most is your personal brand, your unique offer, and how you communicate that to the market. Ever wonder why some liquor stores do better then others? I can bet they’re doing some form of marketing also.
Being a liquor store I imagine tracking your conversions and ROI is going to be slightly different. 

You could run a Facebook ad campaign with a special discount offer, say 5% off any purchase if they quote a special code / word at the checkout. 

Now you’ll know which campaigns are performing best based on which codes are quoted.
Content marketing can be tied in to brand marketing. (Mainly for blogging or writing articles)

Brand copywriting and direct response would be the way to go. 

—
Mike
There are several ways you can track brick and mortar. Since this is a liquor store, promoting the consumption of alcohol on Social Media is treading in some tricky waters.

&#x200B;

I would use a system like Clover (or similar) to create a loyalty base. They have built in marketing options (like email and SMS) to draw back your customers in and maintain a loyalty (obviously without turning them into alcoholics haha).

&#x200B;

Also, Google MyBusiness will be your best friend here. If you give your current/new customers an incentive to leave reviews on your Google MyBusiness Listing, and you keep it up to date, you will see an increase in traffic. Keeping your website up to date and posting about new events or waiting lists on high end spirits/wines would be effective, which you could also incorporate into your Google MyBusiness listing. 

&#x200B;

I don't know where you live, but if they allow alcohol delivery, I would DEFINITELY do it. I'm in South Florida and you can get alcohol delivered on on one of the "food" delivery apps. Can't remember which one, BUT....keeping your product at a good price and not jack up your delivery fee would increase your awareness and loyalty.
Depending on your location, I would register with one of the delivery apps as well as google local business listing. That’s the 2 I would think that people commonly see on a daily basis.
Google ads will work the best for you, BUT it needs to be setup professionally.

And I mean professionally.

The free listings like GMB and yelp take ages to build momentum and possibly never, if you do not optimize it with contents all the time. The problem with Google 3 snack pack is that your actual website needs to be seriously SEO optimized to show up in the top for major keywords.

PM me if you want to discuss more about it.
It depends on a publisher and type of ads.

&#x200B;

This is what you want:

* CPM - high awereness
* CPC - high traffic
* CPA - conversion

&#x200B;

This is how they scam you:

* CPM - low quality cheap impressions
* CPC - cheap bot traffic
* CPA - retargeting / brand keywords on search

&#x200B;

This is what you should look after:

* CPM - use independent adservering to check viewability rate, placement of your ads and format structure. What you would want is high viewability rates, higher share of premium banner formats (300x600, 970x250) and good websites
* CPC - monitor onsite traffic, use analytics and set events, check time on site and pages per session. Also use hotjar to monitor website and analytics events to monitor website for bot traffic (time on site and pps can be gamed). Also check conversion rates.
* CPA - don't allow retargeting pixels from agencies, or check if traffic sent by agencies are actually returning visitors (this means that they're retargeting your traffic, and it's more common that you might think). Also check if agencies are using "post-view" conversion tracking to charge you and don't do this (it's BS). Due to cookie blocking, using multiple devices and other attribution problems, CPAs are hardest to pull successfully, and if they work surprisingly well, then the odds are you're being gamed...
Depends on the goal of the campaign and how easily you can track the sale or acquistion. If you are advertising laundry detergent - maybe the user clicks the link and buys online or something, but maybe they just happen to try that laundry detergent the next time they are at the store.

Think of he ads for butter and other grocery items you might see during a youtube video. Nobody is clicking that video to go buy butter right then and there.

If simple brand // product awareness is what matters CPM is a good measurement.
It depends on the goal of the campaign. If you just want branding/awareness, CPM is fine. If the goal is lead generation,  CPM makes no sense to focus on.
On the platforms that matter, Display = CPM. That's basically it.
CPM can get you more scale
Generally this is less the agency’s choice than the publishers. For example display/banner platforms are usually built around CPM’s. Search platforms are generally CPC. Social runs the gamut. Affiliate does CPA. Though note most platforms have flexibility in pricing models these days. 

There are certain conventions and best practices. If the goal is reach or branding with engaging visual, video, or audio than CPM is preferred. CPC is ideal for media types that need clicks for validation (like text ads). CPA is generally the realm of affiliate marketing or emerging (not fully trusted) media. 

If you’re working at a large agency or on a large camping it’s common to see all three models on one plan.
CPM is the way the inventory is purchased from the publisher so whether you are being charged a marked up CPM or a CPC it's all the same.

Since clicks are largely irrelevant to a display campaign even for ROAS/Retargeting you'll still want to pay for impressions. Clicks on the ads versus actual traffic registered by analytics is always going to be much lower. 

For programmatic display we charge a Max $6 CPM for example on $3000+ budgets but we often deliver much lower at say $1.5 to 4 CPM combined prospecting and retargeting. 

Low CPM like low CPC means you won't be able to bid on your most valuable users which is less relevant on prospecting (minus garbage inventory) but very important on retargeting.
Ask in r/jobs and explain where you live and what are your experience.Also i would recommend you to keep doing freelancing with the job just make some limits as it will boost your earnings.
The role you should go for is Content writer or SEO executive but if you learn PPC & FB campaigns  you can go for Digital marketing executive (best paid).

Also make a customised C.V in which mention your previous work and clients you can add some reference of a big or good project you did in past and brother happy married life in future i would be needing marriage related tips.
Do you want to work agency side, or in house? Agency would be an obvious choice given you have direct client experience, but in house pays more and be less hectic in terms of work hours.

You have good overall digital marketing skills, so you should have no problem applying for Digital Marketing Specialist / Manager roles which usually cover a range of DM skills from planning / strategy, execution (paid ad setup) etc. If you are you more interested in one area (eg SEO) then you can focus on a single stream and apply for SEO Specialist roles, for example.

I don't think you should aim for entry or "executive"  roles - if you've run full digital marketing campaigns from start to finish and you have 5+ years experience, you should be aiming higher. Take a look at some jobs on Linkedin and see where you stand.
In-house agency corporate marketer here. I moved into this role after freelancing for a few months and am really glad I did. I still am able to flex my schedule as needed but also have a ton of stability (plus great benefits). One thing I was really focused on was a 401k plan, so I'm sticking corporate for now.
It's definitely possible. I went from freelance to in-house to agency and now back to freelance. There are pros and cons to all of them but I'm glad to be back freelance as I don't like to have too much income coming from one source. There is strength in numbers! :)

&#x200B;

I don't have any specific advice really, good luck!
I’m about a month into my digital marketing and web design agency. What is the best way to to get clients. What methods have worked for you guys in the past and what is the best way to approach it?
Event tracking with google tag manager, create event with any click with sign up button, then you will see result in google analytic in events section
Google Tag Manger is the "easiest" solution but you need to be mindful that you might get false positives if you don't get the trigger right. 

&#x200B;

Ps on some WordPress themes, this can be a PITA 

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
GTM as people say - or in Google Analytics you can create a 'sign up' event that is triggered whenever your thank you for signing up page loads.
I was told by one of my professors at uni that you don't want to buy a book on social media marketing because it changes so fast. There are plenty of resources on YouTube and academies that can teach you the basics then you just run with it and see what works for you and what doesn't.

I recommend searching display ads for the particular social media site that you want to learn. Or even just "basic social media marketing help" into YouTube. 

Good luck!
Go to udemy search you will see a course that suit your desire
I would definitely say start connecting (or following) the CMOs / digital marketing directors / social media marketing managers at some companies resonate with you and how they approach that topic. I think you would be surprised by how many, share amazing insight into the way they do things.

&#x200B;

and it doesnt get more real life than hearing it from the mouths of the folks who do it every day, rather than a book or professor.
Quicksprout has lots of great stuff
You'll get the most understanding from the training platforms give to advertisers. They'll literally tell you how to use the platform better than the average user and in many cases give case studies for campaign starting points.
Find a mentor..i.e. someone making a good living doimg what you want to do.
Hello, online courses and by doing practice will make you expert in social media marketing go to Lynda or Udemy
What kind of survey? Are you targeting a specific audience?

What platform will you be using for your survey?
If it's very large, you'll want to give a reward for each person that participates in it.
Use typeform + remember to give some incentive
What is your purpose? This will help. You need to be pretty detailed to get the right answers.
I have used SurveySwap. In fact you fill in other surveys for credits, and you pay credits to the people who filled your survey. You can also pay for credits if you’re lazy tho. You can even target certain demographics (age, country etc). I had around 300 respondents in 2 weeks. Hope this helps! :)
Google forms! How large of a survey?
Who is your supervisor? Do they set the budget? 

I was in this position before. It will help to start slow and show the decision-maker the value of your approach. 

Here's how I did it. 

Sat down and recommended the owner do 10 things in the long run but 2 things immediately. He reviewed my list and we chose 2 actions to take for now. 

I created a list of new marketing methods, tools, services, and we'd add 1 item every other week. 

It allowed the owner to see what I was doing. I walked him through the results like search ranking and Facebook ad conversion. Once he knew I wasn't wasting money, he'd greenlight the next marketing task.
It’s not too late. I am in a hurry now, but will post later. 

Also don’t buy a course.
Not too late at all. It’s hard to give specific advice for which area to focus in right now but getting a general marketing exec position should be OK and will give you exposure to what it’s like to work in this industry and whether you want to pursue it further.

To get you started, you should look at perhaps getting a Google Analytics certification or Hubspot inbound marketing. Also check out the Moz Academy if you can. These are all free and will help you brush up on your general skills whilst also showing employers that you’re serious about the switch. Definitely do not buy a course though! You really don’t need to.

If you’re struggling to find work initially then you could speak to the company where you currently work to see if they have any open positions in the marketing department. I initially started out by asking to help our marketing team with just a few hours a week. Eventually I was able to increase this over time and after that I had enough experience to go into interviews with something to talk about. 

People switch to new industries all the time and I bet most of them would kill to be doing so at just 25 years old! That’s still really early and with tonnes of time to catch up. Don’t rush yourself, study the aforementioned resources as best you can and see where you can get experience. You’ll be able to get a job soon enough:)
I have a master's degree in finance. I went from working at banks to working at a tech company to now breaking into digital marketing.

&#x200B;

Run the other way, fast. Go back to the bank. You have it way better than you think.

&#x200B;

The competition is fierce, they have years and years ahead of you, and will gladly starve both of you to 'win' the account. Gaining clients is harder than you think, and they pay drastically less (like 95% less) than the numbers you see thrown around on this sub. 

&#x200B;

RUN THE OTHER WAY
Not too late at all, especially if you’re ok with more entry level positions, but are you ready for the likely salary drop?
I haven't studied marketing at all yet I am in the industry. Here's my story. 

I've got a degree in journalism, an industry that's an asshole to get into especially if you, such as myself, are an immigrant. By a mere chance I landed myself a job in what I thought was PR, but my responsibilities were mostly running social media - what can I say, the company was Chinese. As a matter of fact, it closed down within month and a half.

So, I've started a job hunt again. Whenever I was attempting to get a job in PR, my little bubble was starting to burst as some employers explained to me my previous experience belonged in digital marketing department rather than PR. So, this way I've began applying for Digital Marketing instead while still being a journalism grad with 1.5 months experience in 'PR'. 

Needless to say no one was willing to give me a job. On the other hand, I've been offered a paid 3 months internship. While I worked for a bare minimum, the amount of experience gained is insufferable and lead me to further progression later on. 

So, I didn't even plan on reprofiling into Digital Marketing nor had interest or sufficient knowledge to it other than social media maintenance experience and basic knowledge of SEO and wordpress. 

It is a very easy industry to get into, even if you haven't studied it. As long as you're a fast learner, you will most definitely succeed. 
Buy a course from someone who’s killing it. Join Facebook groups

I work for a media company that publishes numerous websites. We have agency relationships but they’re buyers of our inventory not true partners like you’re saying. We have various teams tasked with managing our technology stack and yield management is a huge part of what they do. They analyze all the sell side ad tech and make decisions but there aren’t really intermediaries it’s a direct relationship between us and the ad tech vendors. 
My company - NitroPay.com - is an example of the ad revenue optimization and ad tech portion. We work with SSPs and exchanges to deliver ads programmatically through header bidding. We have other tech that helps with reporting and ad quality. We do have some direct relationships with media agencies for direct ad buys - this is mostly to guarantee placements or create more custom solutions than a standard banner. 

Many ad ops outsource shops do similar things, but each has its own flavor and implementation. Publishers sometimes will try out different solutions, but often they will only move if something is not going as well as they’d hoped. 

Hope that helps. 
I would like to suggest you Integrate push Notifications in your website so that you can re-target your users who are coming to your website by sending relevant push notifications in regular intervals. If you send informative updates and news to your users it makes them to keep updated with your updates and you also get more valuable customers. Push notifications will reduce most of your marketing budget. You will get it with less price and more benefits. I hope this will help you.
Google Ads: get certified, it’s free and you’ll learn just about everything you need to know. Also make sure you install Google’s tracking features.

Facebook Ads: make sure there’s a Facebook Pixel installed on the site to retarget visitors. Making sure you’re targeting and retargeting correctly is crucial. I believe Facebook Blueprint is the name of their free courses (gotta pay for the certification though) 

My agencies got a few free guides I can PM you if you’re interested, but as far as general advice just be analytical. Test different copy and creative combos, see what converts best.  Same with the platforms, just see what’s working well and allocate budget accordingly. 
 

Web design is one of the most competitive verticals for search and social IMHO. I’ve been seeing the best results with bleeding edge tactics like organic marketing on emerging platforms. More traditional google ppc and SEO has proven somewhat productive but quite expensive cost per customer acquisition in my experience. I’m recommending a strategy along the lines of “do the basics well and expect to get some customers through traditional search marketing but be sure to also invest in newer channels”.
I use google sheets to track a lot of my activity. Example you can have a sheet with the ad and then copy it over to a new cell every time you make a change to the ad copy label it as a new version (3.1 3.2 etc) - this is also useful because you can run a/b tests this way so you know which ad has been performing best
There are several tools that you can use. Can't say which one is the best. Depends on what you like.

&#x200B;

However, here are a few to consider:

&#x200B;

1. The good ole' Google Sheets: Project Management couldn't get simpler than this
2. Project Management tools: MS Project, Trello, Monday. Try the ones that offer free option and see which one you like.

While you can always use the channel specific platform to analyze data, it is best to have them all in once place using a project management tool. Alternatively, you can look at BI tools such as Tableau to have all data in one place.

&#x200B;

Hope that helps

Shashank
We use Airtable for bigger campaign execution management. For minor changes, I still have an old school notebook! 

Things like adding keywords to already established ad groups, small copy changes are jotted in my notebook as I go. I know, old school, but it works for me. 
Hubspot, Tasks, and Excel. 
While you can use primary research tools and various other modern day analytical tools to track activities - let's face it, tracking offline marketing activities is much tougher. Example of offline marketing activities - Hoardings, Newspaper ads, Magazine ads, Posters, Direct Mailers, participation in trade fairs, exhibitions, etc. Unlike Online marketing where the data is readily available for analysis, in offline the biggest challenge is to find ways to gauge the campaign's effectiveness. 
Connect your site with Google analytics and use google docs. 
Focus on results and deliverables as much, if not more than what your responsibilities were. 
I found that I had more requests for in-person interviews when I specifically asked for ways they'd like to improve, and responded with personal work experiences/results that matched those situations. 

"Oh, so you have x problem? When I worked for xyz, I did this to fix x problem for them." Showing interest in their company and their issues is a strong signal that you've done your research, are engaged in the field, and are worth investing time and effort into pursuing. 

I was also very forward about where my experience lacked, and how I'd like to grow to fill those gaps while in that role. I think managers appreciated the transparency and realistically, a lot of the times they'll backtrack and say "oh there actually is very little of xyz responsibility, we just threw that on there to draw more people in". 

I also tend to go into a phone interview with 3 questions (not including pay/benefits queries), again for the purpose of showing that I've done my research and am invested in their business. 
Talk about some special projects you worked on
I struggled with phone interviews when I was first starting off in my career. I would tend to talk way too much since I didn't have the visual cue of knowing whether the interviewer was engaged. Scripting out answers to the standard questions (tell me about yourself? what are your strengths/weaknesses?, etc.), recording myself, and listening to those recordings to improve my pace and confidence.

In addition, as others mentioned, focus on results and deliverables. For example, don't only say that what you did, but mention what your work accomplished:

 \* Worked hand in hand with ad agency to create and execute native, display, streaming audio, video, search and paid social strategy. 

 \* Increased ROI by 25% through optimizing a multi-million dollar digital advertising spend. 
Faith on your self.

Be confident.

No Nervousness.

Then start describing your experience. Start from the very first point.point to point describe.then your recent achievement.

&#x200B;
Why you are important, not what you did.
Hello there, 

Greetings!!

&#x200B;

Digital Marketing is a good course if you have any future goal regarding JOB, FREELANCE or BUSINESS. Every course in DM is important and connected with each other. SEO & SMM both are important, first SEO is to be done in website while promoting your website using SMM.   
Both SEO & SMM are easier to practise and helpful for promoting your blog/website on the internet.  
SMM would be good to start with, because they also have paid advertising on these platforms that are in high demand. If you learn Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter advertising, you'll be in a good spot beside generally knowing social media strategy. 
I would definitely learn SMM. There are many agencies and in house companies hiring SMM experts. SEO is important for web developers. So, if you plan on developing websites in html5 I believe it’s obligatory to learn SEO. Otherwise, SMM will give you an edge and possibly lead to a profession.

In digital marketing the goal is to be knowledgeable of different platforms. There are three types of platforms (Social, Digital, and Search). Social platforms are: Facebook Ads, Snapchat Ads, Twitter Ads. In your case, digital platforms will be running YouTube or Display off Google Ads. Finally, the main search platform is Google Ads as well. But, bing and yahoo have their own search platforms as well.

Some very high level concepts for SMM to get you started. There are two main cost metrics (CPM and CPC.) CPM is cost per thousand impressions. CPC is cost per click. The main cost metric for social and digital platforms tend to be CPM (though, sometimes CPV cost per view is applicable). For search, CPC is the main cost metric since you (the advertiser) is only charged based on clicks.

Good luck! Enjoy the process.
SEO gives results after weeks and months and if you want instant results then go for SMM
Social Media Marketing will be a lot easier to learn.  
check ur messages
Seo and smm both are different 

SEO Will Take more time to give Result and SMM will give you Result Instant but you have to implement properly Otherwise You will not Get You ROI also So i suggest you first learn everything and go a head and Start With SMM and Make Huge Revenue
There is a lot of difference between SEO and SMM. SEO stands for search engine optimization it helps you to get organic traffic from major search engines. Apart from that SMM stands for social media marketing which is use to get paid traffic from various social media channels. 
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/marketing] [Agency owners - how did you build your team? & please critique my plan.](https://www.reddit.com/r/marketing/comments/b2zzvf/agency_owners_how_did_you_build_your_team_please/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
What is the niche?
First of all you need to do a through study of what this business is about and what is the market capability of the business digitally.Then you need to explore that market and see at which point you can take advantage.  


Secondly making that business a brand in the relevant industry should be your primary target. Focus on social media marketing and also market the products as a brand.
I'm not American so it might be different there. Isn't the point of an internship that you learn off someone experienced?

How are you an intern yet you're the only one who knows digital marketing?

&#x200B;
I'm trying to understand what it's about. I visited their site, not clear, something to do with videos.
Do you think your company would let you work remotely? I had a friend in advertising in a similar situation. She asked her job if she could move to a different state and work remotely, and they agreed. Doesn’t hurt to ask. 
I personally am in Florida so it's hard to speak on behalf of LA. From what I know, LA has a lot of great opportunities for digital marketing jobs. Starting looking and see what jobs are available that fit your skill sets. Work with a recruiter ... if you are lucky, the company may be willing to help you with relocation. 
May have something for you. Messaging ya
Probably a waste of money. Talk yourself into an entry level role at an agency and work your way up from there.
I honestly never attended or joined one. I did not go to college for marketing, but now am the head of marketing for a software company. I think if I wanted to get into marketing now, I would do the following (which some you have done):

-Google Certifications
-HubSpot Certifications
-Listen to marketing podcasts like Neil Patels
-Consdering General Assembly course
-Or like you mention a bootcamp. There are also like 9 month courses from schools, but those can prob be more expensive.

Everything I learned was on my own and through working at a marketing agency to learn more. But if I was starting now, I'd probably do what I mentioned above.

Best of luck! 
It 100% percent depends who is running the bootcamp. More than likely you will end up with a bootcamp run by a fraud. To start, get any relevant Google Certifications and the Facebook Blueprint. Start networking today and signup for local marketing meetups, events, associations, luncheons etc. Talk to people and let everyone know what you are doing. You will find a lead on a company hiring and learn along the way.
Nothing matters as long as you know digital marketing. I'm a Engg. By education and never done an MBA after that. But, now i'm a marketing manager in 2 years of starting my career.
Save your money and do the free certifications and courses offered by Google and HubSpot. Moz has free courses and so does Hootsuite. If you really want to pay for a course, search Udemy or Udacity for cheap courses (they usually have regular sales where the classes are around $10).

But everything you need to know to get started in digital marketing you can teach yourself. This is exactly the tactics I used to land my first digital marketing job.
The certs should be enough. I never heard of a marketing bootcamp and having attended one would make a difference to me.
Sounds interesting. I'd like to get involved if possible. 
sent you an email
sent you an email
Sounds great would like to work with you
Just emailed you!
I was actually about to start a thread like this myself. I'm considering enrolling in a course in either digital marketing, or bookkeeping. I get the feeling that employment wise, bookkeeping is steady and stable. Digital marketing might be more versatile. I haven't been able to decide. I'm from Toronto and I'm trying to figure out which alternative is best suited to this city. 
I'll follow this thread. RemindMe! 1 day
The advice I always hear is to specialise on one area in particular. You seem to have a good grasp of a wide range of skills but in order to start moving up it might be worth focusing on one key skill that you enjoy/are good at. 

&#x200B;

Failing that, why not keep doing what you're doing and look to find a client or two of your own that you can work on in the evenings/weekends. This will give a little bit of extra money but also it will start to build up a portfolio. If you can do this then after a while you'll have evidence of work to show potential future employers or you might even just decide that with a few more clients you could work for yourself instead. 

&#x200B;

It's the same crossroads that I'm at right now as well so it will be interesting to hear what you decide. 
I've been in the digital marketing field for the last 8 years and I honestly think that given your skill set it shouldn't take more than a year to build small company, leverage your marketing skills and pull 100k a year working for yourself. I am in the process of doing it and I am already making more on my own terms when I decided to use my skills to make my own money. Just remember that mastery of digital marketing principals and advanced practices inevitably lead to entrepreneurship.  
Make it up. But prepared to explain how you got those numbers. 
Estimate and use percentages if you have a general idea and just don’t remember specific numbers. You can also still say ‘grew’ or ‘increased’, even if you don’t say by how much. As well as use words like ‘doubled’, etc. If you know anyone still working at those companies, see if they can look up the metrics for you.

It’s not perfect, but you’ve learned a valuable lesson about keeping a record of metrics and accomplishments in future positions.
I usually recommend Basecamp for smaller businesses. 99$ flat monthly for unlimited users, unlimited projects.

As always, it depends on your businesses needs specifically. 
Trello + Basecamp is seriously powerful. We use Wrike at my marketing agency. It’s really well suited for both project and product management but I have no idea what it costs.  
Base camp is solid but is more for chatting than documenting work and process

There are so many that do the same thing.  At the end of the day how granular do you want the information?

At the end of the day it should be based on your record keeping needs and size of your company 
We use Airtable at my agency. Free and paid plans. Really powerful and can be very client friendly if you choose to share it with then
I would love to hear a wide variety of options here. As a web dev agency we've tried a tonne of different platforms. The issue is we need something for CRM, PM, task management, wikis plus more.

The issue I've found is that most systems just do one thing. We want something that spans our whole workflow. It's got to the point where I think we're just going to have to built it ourselves.

One thing we've learnt along the way though - no platform will make up for poor processes and organisation within the team!
The tools I've tried: 
Basecamp - it's good, but it wasn't for me. It's great if you are still using word docs and pdfs

Asana: cheap for your team size, but of a learning curve for the team - I've found this the hardest to implement for some reason

JIRA/confluence - great to use together, best for teams practicing agile (not being agile, but practising the methodology) 

Monday - not bad for simple tasks, expensive 

My favourite? Notion. 
Notion is a wiki style note taking and task management app. I like that I can format docs in there, keep all the work in one place, and I love the lack of structure - we do dev, digital, design and automation - our tasks are Hella random and notion accounts for that. Also our team picked it up in a day
We use zoho projects. It works but took us a long time to figure it out.  I think there may be better stuff out there. 
Asana is the hub of our comparably size digital marketing agency. I encourage you give Asana a serious look. Three reasons make this our solution of choice.

1. Free access to clients and contractors (nearly eliminates the nightmare of email)
2. Integration - full G Suit tools, single sign-on via SAML, billing, invoicing, bookkeeping, timekeeping, and most importantly code repositories (I will give you a list if you are interested)
3. Project management tools -  workflows, project templating, worker metrics, forecasting (additional $$) and trackable milestones

We keep all our quality assurance lists in Asana templates then add them to a team projects as needed. We use the dashboard view to track all active projects both for milestones but also contractor and employee performance.

We are looking forward to connecting CRM but haven't reached the point where we need one yet. 
We use Asana and love it! (Facebook Marketing Agency) 

Started off using Trello a couple years back but it just wasn’t comprehensive enough. 

It really comes down to what you do. 

There are also several options out there made to serve specific niches! 

E.G. I’ve heard great things about Dubsado (project management, invoicing and more for creative teams)
We use Workamajig which has been great across the agency but especially on the studio/creative side of things. 
Asana all the way. Basecamp doesn't have some basic features like recurring events and people have been asking for them for years. 
Trello works for us. One board per client (usually). I come from a Project Management background which helps coaching the team to stick to Kanban fundamentals.
If you ask me, my favorite project management app is ProProfs Project. It has all the features a growing agency needs to manage both their projects and teams. I, for one, also needed a tool to manage everything on-the-go, and ProProfs Project definitely helped a lot! A few features it offers include:

* Time Tracking
* Email Notifications
* File Sharing
* Shared Calendar
* Report Generation
* Invoice Generation

I have been using the app for about 1.2 years and it is one of the best apps out there that offer affordable pricing plans too!
This makes sense to me. Focus not only on brand but messaging and imagery too. The subject line should remind them of the ads they've seen, while still intriguing them to find out more, and the imagery can then reinforce that previous ad. 

In theory it makes sense. Next step is to test the theory and A/B it!
Is your email campaign eventually leading the leads to another landing page for registration or some sort of action? If yes, then do create an fb/ig custom audience campaign to direct users to that landing page. 

I don’t see how retargeting to a separate landing page would improve open rates of emails?

I think you need to test different subject lines and From: names.
Am not sure this fewture works on google ads. Confirm with fb coz thwy changed their rules the other day
I collect FB subscribers instead of emails. Here are the few benefits

\- Easy way to subscribe, just two clicks, no typing - so more no. of subscribers

\- Broadcast messages directly to their FB Messenger - 80-90% open rates

\- Export PSIDs (subscribe id in FB) and create lookalike audience!

\- If there is a new ad for them, I don't need to create ad campaign and pay money, just send that ad in broadcast
Is it online or offline marketing or a mix?
Depends on what campaigns they run. Here’s broad some ideas:

Can you code at all? What languages? HTML CSS?
What CMS systems are you familiar with. WordPress?
What social media platforms are you familiar with? Have you ever run ads?
What exposure have you had to SEO/PPC
Have you ever used a CRM or ESP before?

Do you recognise all of those acronyms? They might expect you to.
Also, if they don’t ask, you could flip those Qs back to them and ask if they’re expected of you.

Good luck fellow marketer.

(Source, marketing manager 10+yrs)
They will probably ask you if you have experience in: WordPress Management, Web Design, Ads conversion tracking, Facebook pixel, Display and Search network, google tag manager, graphic design, after effects, Facebook business manager, A/B testing, Instagram ads, Video creation, SEO and CRO. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
What area is this role in? The range seems a tad under market , how many years experience do you have? 
I think if you intend to make money from your website and it's not just a hobby, then it's worth buying the schema extension/ plugin. Otherwise, you can use the schema.org guides to write them manually.

Just do a calculation on how much money you would save if you were to write it manually versus how much money you save by not spending all your time trying to learn code. 
I believe that Rank Math has schema for local seo but i not sure about anything else though.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Hope it helps.
Schema Markup help search engines to understand all of the context behind your content. You can use schema markup to get all kinds of rich snippets in Google, including:

* Events
* Ratings
* Recipes
* Photos/Videos
* Article Information
* Product Information
* Addresses and Phone Numbers

**Following are the best and free schema plugins for WordPress Website:**

* WP Review 
* WP Product Review 
* All In One Schema.org Rich Snippets
Don't pay for it install markup (JSON-LD) from Kazuya Takami and you'll be fine.
I did an apprenticeship through GenM and was really lucky to get someone who knows a lot about the part of digital marketing that I really want to learn about. I worked remotely from Europe with someone in Canada, and now work on part-time basis for them (they employed me after my apprenticeship). After that I took a 2nd internship to give me experience in a different part of digital marketing and I’m also loving that one too. The first was a super small business with one person running it, the second is a proper company with lots of people on the team.  

It’s been useful to me because I’m British and living in France. It’s hard to get into internships here if you’re not affiliated with a uni. And I’m already graduated. Also my French isn’t entirely fluent. So for me, getting experience with an English-speaking company whilst working in France is just so useful (and I can learn & improve my French on the side). 

I would highly recommend it. It’s literally work experience and free training with real businesses- the most hands on experience you can get! I would honestly recommend it to anyone - but be sure to know what your digital marketing goals are (what you want to learn  and where you want to specialise) and that’ll help you find the right mentor. 
I use it, it’s pretty basic but I’ve gotten two internships through them. Some of the internships lead to employment, others just give you experience. It’s cool if you have free time. It’s free so  can’t complain 🤷🏻‍♂️ 

It shows you some basic concepts supplemented by videos and “quizzes” at the end of each module, and each time you finish a section (SEO, Social Media, etc) you get a badge on your profile for the companies on the website to see. You can get hired through there too
We paid like $100 to get somebody for a month I believe 
[deleted]
Just be wary of certain people trying to take advantage of your work. Some will just have you so that you can teach them everything you know. It is free though and if you complete 4 internships (3 months each), you can become a freelancer and get gigs that pay pretty well
As long as you are willing to start at the bottom, you should be fine. 
You don’t need a degree. 

You would likely not be entering as a Manager, however not having a degree shouldn’t hinder your progression if you start as a Social Exec or similar. 

In regards to your Twitter and Instagram, if this is a personal account - about you - in my opinion, this following is not likely to seem impressive to an employer.
You are on the right path, apply for some jobs and see how you get on. You might not go straight to manager level but you could definitely get a job in the space. Do some free courses to improve your knowledge too. Facebook Blueprint for example
In the digital marketing realm, I think certifications matter more than degrees. For example, become Google Certified, and pursue some other similar certifications. Social Media marketing requires knowledge of the platforms, a willingness to stay up to date with the latest trends, some design skills, and some advertising knowledge. Online courses will likely be enough for most employers at the entry level. 
I run a digital marketing agency, although we don’t deal directly with organic posting (focus mostly on lead generation) I can tell you that the companies I work with would hire you purely based on the fact you’re interested. If you are one chapter ahead of the person you’re hired by, continue to learn and show charisma you shouldn’t have an issue. 
As long as you have the experience and guts, you should be fine.
Startups wont particularly care about education if you have solid evidence you can do the role.

Larger companies need filters, even if they’re superficial. Otherwise, it’ll be impossible to comb through the hundreds of applications. 
You don't need a degree at all. As a matter of fact you should save the tons of money and spend it on ads specifically for the purpose of personal branding. Along with it try to find a day job in social media itself. So as you get legible exposure in social media marketing on your resume you also document it and show off your skills in the form of ads. 
You can use Instagram as well as Facebook fir running those ads. Alongside create as much content you can, blog posts, quora answers, anything putting your stuff out there for the world to see. 

Is having an Instagram with low followers and a blog the only things you have in your portfolio? Because most companies don't hire 1 person to run an Instagram (unless it's a huge company).. They expect that to be apart of your skills set. There is so, so many moving pieces within digital marketing, and with Instagram and a blog being both very low level skills inside the industry, I feel like it will be very unlikely to land a job with that being the majority of your skill set.

I'm not trying to deter you in the slightest, I'm just speaking my thoughts on the situation. Maybe land a internship somewhere to build your craft? Good luck!
Without a degree Im doing a apprenticeship in Marketing.
Ofcourse. Skill is what matters, not degree. 
Nope 
Google's Data Studio is free and an awesome tool for reporting. I use Supermetrics too (Only about $45/mo) for social and much more. I also use the Supermetrics and Google Analytics plugins for Google Sheets which both integrate with Data Studio along with a bunch of other "connectors" some of which have fees. 

Data Studio gives you the ability to create and share "live" dashboards and gives clients the ability to poke around if you apply filters (change dates, devices, etc.). It also has some pre-built reporting templates you can use to get up and running quickly! 
Depending on the size account of the client, you can just screen grab sections of importance then put that in your report. Some clients get a lot of value from just that much.
Dashthis is a really sweet reporting tool! 
Raw exports of data cleaned up in excel works well too
Consider create landing pages in WordPress or even better Adobe Xd.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps.
Knowing YouTube inside and out can't hurt at all. Maybe approach a few ad agencies in your area approach them about hiring you as a freelancer they can tap when needed. Good way to get more clients and build your CV.
Cerifications are proof of knowledge in an area - they're a great addition to a CV/resume for showing credibility, but in digital marketing experience goes a long way. What sounds more impressive? "social media marketing certification from HubSpot" or "successfully managed YouTube channel, garnering **1 million** views." while certifications have their use, the work that you've done so far speaks a lot for itself and is your proof. *professional experience*

What you're currently doing is great because it's giving you practical knowledge and experience that hiring managers are looking for and which will most likely be your responsibilities on the job. 

Still, if you're looking to expand your knowledge through a course and credible certification, I reccomend Udacity, Coursera, AMA or CMA if you're in Canada.
Definitely start learning about other social media channels because you obviously lean to it and it will be easier to understand other platforms for you then for other individuals.

What is your niche on YouTube?
Your CV is all about experience. You can either finish formal education or get a side job as you still work as a consultant to add to your resume. Ain't no other way around that, if you want a backup plan.

&#x200B;

I personally finished my Bachelor for that reason.
One of the issues is that not many really understand the benefits of seo. They still see it as an option.
However, given the digital world we live in, i can suggest that you create a portfolio with the most successful YouTube videos of yours and show your skills using those.
If a business identifies your skills, you'll have more say in marketing yourself.
If you have further questions, feel free to reach out to me.
Cheers
Shashank 
Man I hate this. I wish my own agency would grow a pair and use client names regardlessly, it’s actually in our contract we can feature creative we produce and use them as campaign examples but whatever.

You say things like:

A leader in home pest control in the south Texas region.

An Indiana business school.

A highly rated pool company in south Florida.

Just lay it out there, clients know the games. As long as you can provide a few references if really prodded, and the statements are factual  you’re set.
You could use an individual’s first name and their job title if the industry isn’t important. It’s a good way for folks to identify with others in a similar position. 
Note: if you want to use the testimonials for SEO purposes then do remember that you will have to acquire them via a third party system in order for Google to consider them. 

Also do note that testimonials that could be considered as not truthful, are a cause for manual penalty in the eyes of Google 

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Will not work!
I have found the end user has zero confidence in manually entered website testimonials. Pulling them in from google gives so much more trust and power behind them. Put forth more effort into asking clients for reviews. 
Some of our clients are also not willing to let us disclose their company name when we write case studies or testimonials. What I did was, instead of mentioning their brand directly, I just described their company, i.e. what industry, size, their USP -- i think these details are compelling enough for the audience to understand the case study or the context of the testimonial
A little tip that I tried and has worked well on some: Set your retargeting pixel to fire AFTER the visitors has already spent 5 or 10 seconds. By doing this, you'll be creating a retargeting list that is already more engaged than the standard one which includes retargeting people that bounced right away and barely viewed the site.
It depends on what you offer and your objective. There is never a 1-size-fits all. You have to adjust plans based on your distinct needs. 

So give some background on your business and I should be able to help. 

-Business Development & Marketing consultant. 
If you are interested in "cheap" traffic, then go with Facebook Ads.
Without knowing anything about your business, I wouldn't venture to offer a direct answer to that question.

I would suggest first, you need to determine your customer avatar(s). Only then (if done properly), will you have a better idea of which channels to use (ie. Google Ads or FB Ads or both).

Generally, my strategy with clients is to use multiple channels (so, could be Google Ads and FB Ads + content marketing strategy working synergistically together vs channels working in silos).
It all depends on the investment amount you are ready to spend. Google Ads require high investment and also experience to make the ads work. The quality of your ad and website content matter greatly when it comes to ad bidding. 

Even Facebook ads give you a deeper insight into the social behavior of your audience and also allows you to grow a social community around your business. 

But since every business is different, it depends on the nature of business, which ads will work for it.
Just remember that in Google Ads you are targeting people who are looking for specific thing/service, while in Facebook Ads you are showing ads to people who might be interested in your product because they meet audience requirements - but it doesn't mean they are looking for that now.   


So just like kind people advised you here, there is no easy answer to that, because we don't what what are you offering.
 Take one step back from this.

What do you sell? If you sell a need it now service or product, Google ads. Facebook will be pretty hit and miss. 

If it's something people would buy on a whim or not really know about, then Facebook.

If it's something people search for but would also be interested if they came across it, then both.

Think of it this way. I need it now products and services are difficult to sell on Facebook. Google ads all the way. Ie emergency electrician.

General consumer products work on either as people will both search for things like furniture but also check new stuff out they come across on Facebook and Instagram.

They both have their nuances though. And without knowing what you sell to who... It's hard to give a concrete answer. Not sure why people ask vague questions though.... 🤔 
It entirely depends upon the business. I would go with Google ads as its approach is more widespread
They both have pros and cons I suggest you consult with a PPC expert.
I've recently done a small test on facebook ads, the guaranteed numbers look very high but the engagement of your audience can be very small. I had a 2.4% engagement rate on a small ad.

&#x200B;

It really depends on your target audience, are they active on Facebook?
If you have low budget go with Facebook
Depends on your needs but I personally would like to go for Facebook because, it clubs Instagram with it. Instagram is awesome for ads.. second only to Reddit 
Google trends?
Google trends for free
I use a system that is probably considered dated but it works for me. It's an RSS board (I have quite a few boards/sheets for different topics) using feeds from websites as well as Google alerts. Not all websites offer RSS but its still useful for scanning and picking out stories. I use a service called Netvibes and the free version. You need to invest time setting up but it's relatively easy to do.

If anyone has a better system please share.

EDIT:

For trending topics you need to find the sources that provide this info and add to a board. 
[https://trends.google.com/trends/?geo=US](https://trends.google.com/trends/?geo=US) Google trends is always a good tool. 
Google trends, google alerts? 
buzzsumo ;-)
DO NOT USE Gramto. I tried it out and had too many issues. None of their services ever work, their website is down often, and their customer service teams takes two weeks to respond. Still in the process of trying to get a refund when I initially contacted them for a refund over two weeks ago.

&#x200B;

Some Instagram automation tools don't get you banned. I've found some android apps that look kind of sketchy but have done the best for me. Only about $25/month to use for 5 accounts - lets you do auto like, auto follow, auto unfollow, auto dm, auto comment, and so on.
I have tried several different instagram bots and services in my life. The one that best for me is BigBangram, service with auto likes and followers, free proxy, scheduled posting, multiple accounts and so on. Of course i will not use them all, but it nice to have some extra stuff included, especially when it comes to internet marketing strategy. This is best solution for me.
Grab a copy of The Robb Report (magazine) and see what is being advertised. This is if you are referring to the ultra wealthy 
Target interests of things that affluent people like can afford to do. E.G:

\--> Affluent + wealthy men: Golf, boating, sailing, polo, horse racing, target  men who go to Ascot in the UK or the Kentucky Derby in the US, men who like luxe watches like Patek Philippe, Rolex, Audemars Piguet. Target men who own private jets or who follow private jet companies like Dassault and Bombardier, luxury cars etc

\--> Affluent + wealthy women: Target women who follow luxury brands like LV, Gucci, Chanel. Target haute couture as an interest, target luxury jewellery houses like Cartier and Boucheron. If you are in the US, target women who like luxe shopping destinations like Bal Harbour in Florida or Rodeo Drive in Cali. 

Think of it via interests then target from there
Good strategy I've had success with luxury brands in the past.

Deploy a DSP(Double-click, Sizmek, Amobee, Criteo) in house (agency use is unnecessary) and use 3rd party income data to target the audience with rich media ads. Focus down on premium inventory.

Then use Shopping, RLSA on competitive keywords in search and remarket with your DSP effectively.
Are you limited to just looking for keywords, or can you target demographically? Many platforms (Google, Facebook, Twitter, etc) allow you to target by income. Another option could be geo-targeting your ads to run in high-income zipcodes.
Your submission has been automatically removed. Please contribute to this sub before submitting posts.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/DigitalMarketing) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Wordspace with Woocommerce. It might not be as out of the box you need. 

If you care less about SEO, Squarespace has an easy setup with Memberspace.
This is exactly. Exactly. What clickfunnels does. 
This is quite confusing but very simple question Here are the explanation of your question. There are mainly **4** types of backlinks ***rel=" Type of Link Nofollow, Noreferrer, Dofollow, and Nofollow "***. So for all of these here are the details.

**Tip:** By Default all the links are Dofollow.

>**Backlink/Link/Anchor:** <a href="[https://www.reddit.com](https://www.reddit.com)" rel="noreferrer">Click here for more info</a>

**Nofollow:** No link juice pass, 

**No referrer:** In short, the Noreferrer tag hides referrer information when the link is clicked. 

**Example:** If someone arrives at your site from a link that uses this tag, your analytics won't show who referred that link. Instead, it will mistakenly show as direct traffic in your acquisition channels report

**Dofollow/External:** This is everybody knows. this type of links pass the link juice, and in another hand, we can say that you are trusting a destination site for particular information.

**No opener:** the Noreferrer tag has zero impact on **SEO**. Simply put, it operates on the analytics/browser level, not the search engine level. no opener prevents the newly opened page from having the ability to control the page that delivered the traffic and it's highly recommended  to use in your website

&#x200B;

Thanks
I would say moving to another country and trying to work in marketing will pose an extra difficulty. You may live in what you think is a crappy country, but unlike say Spain you are part of that culture and have a higher chance to come up with creative solutions to sell online/offline. When moving to another country it takes several years to adapt, learn how to blend in and fit the culture, understand the mentality and trends. Those years will feel way harder than living in the crappiest of countries.  
In general, if you want to find a job you have to work on a set of hard skills in your CV. Education can help you achieve that, but people won't hire you just because you have a diploma. Additional soft skills make you a more versatile candidate. I suggest you research what those things are, try to analyze yourself in terms what hard skill you have and what skills can you achieve. 
I agree with the other poster. I was looking to relocate and basically I think I’d have to restart my career. Marketing is hard because for one you need to know the other country’s language, cultural, social norms, and laws. Secondly, GDPR has changed digital marketing in the EU. I just feel like there are more versatile careers like teaching. 
[deleted]
In the era of digital world, digital marketing is the formost choice of businessmen. So, you don't have to be worried about getting jobs, rather you can run your own business on digital marketing or you can earn money doing freelance services at home. 
You always can work remote. Or advertise yourself (your company) on wix. Also you could work in freelancer platforms. There is variety of jobs and ways to reach job. You just have to imagine how your work looks like.   


I know so many people living in Bali or thailand and working on computer 4 hours per day. Those countries are cheep. So live quality and salary ratio 5 stars.   
  
Content is the key. Analyze on your own. No one has figured Internet behavior out. (;
Easy.

Just go into the post analytics and you will be able to see exactly where they came from.

Your post most likely hit the explore page and took off from there. Instagram works like a set of stairs. Each stair has a number of followers. If your engagement % is high enough on each "step" they will continue showing it to your followers and also potentially put it on the explore page for particular hashtags (different for everybody). 
Good question. 

I usually browse the posts in thumbnail format, and if the post looks good enough for me to click on the thumbnail & open up the picture, I usually consider the piece of content to be good & attractive. 

BTW, I manage a bunch of camera & filmmaking related accounts on Instagram. 

Hashtags also play an important role in helping the content go viral. 

Use this tool called Metricool. Sign up & it'll give you the insights of your posts & the how effective were the hashtags with exact numbers. 

Hope that helped :)
Keep good content and relevant hashtags in your post. The more tags, the better. Photos with more tags have been proven to get more likes. 

 The Instagram Explore Page is going to one of the best places to find viral content within your niche.

If your post appears in the Explore Page, then they are getting viral for sure.

With the help of insight and analytics, you can reach up to maximum followers.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
  

I think you can analyze the Audience. You can use Owlmetrics to quickly understand what kind of content performs well with your audience. 
  

You can refer to a brand name in your novel. Like, any character using any particular brand then its fine. 
They follow hashtags you used in your post.
Engagement + timing + momentum ?
Good luck?
Yep, there are a ton: Experian (Mosaic), Claritas (Psycle), Nielsen (Audience Segments). But they all cost money. 
Boost insta only post through insta app. For that you’ll have to link up your fb admnager with your insta handle. Then select insta only ad placement and boost. Hope this helps.
I can't speak to any Freeware or publicly available software like the ones you named.  I've seen some software for automotive that absoultely does work and can identify on avg 50%+ of anonymous traffic down to name, email, phone, address, google map, age, income level, etc.  In some instances I've seen it capture 90%+ of the anonymous visitors to a site and provide this data on them.  However, once you have the data on anonymous consumers who are visiting your site you really need to tread carefully on how you market to them.
It should happen automatically. Google "scans" for aggregate review websites. I believe there is a minimum amount of reviews before it shows. Maybe 10? 

You can Google it and find the answer as your not the first person to ask this.
You can't request  Google to display Facebook or Yelp ratings. It will come automatically. Get some genuine customer reviews and wait for some time. 

It will come :)
You will not learn specific tools in your degree. That's not what an MSc is about.

Tools vary and can change by time. Facebook could die in the next 5 years and some other social media platform takes over.

What you will learn is the theory and concepts behind digital marketing. As another comment suggests, familiarise yourself with tools including Google Analytics, Search Console, Facebook Ads, Google Ads, etc...

Start a blog or a website around your hobby. Work on it, promote it, run a facebook page related to it, etc etc... Google ads gives you free £80 credit or something, use that. Having something to show will be better than just saying you have an MSc and you know the tools.
I would get as familiar with tools like Facebook Insight, Google Analytics, LinkedIn Analytics, etc etc. Just so you're not scrambling when you land a job. 

Software like HubSpot. At least have an understanding of them. For the job you'll be interviewing for, think of what KPIs would be important to reach certain goals. (When you interview, ask them what their short and long term goals will be (3-6 months, 1-3 years). When you're doing practice campaigns, how are you planning them? What are you micro and macro conversions. 

&#x200B;

These are pretty generic because every company is different and will have different metrics to follow, but I'm sure when you graduate you'll have a great enough understanding how to start and training will help. I work for a VERY niche company, they didn't really know anything about DM, so having knowledge of the company and using basic DM knowledge they were overly impressed, you'll probably have a similar experience. I'm sure you'll be fine!
If you have the means, create an affiliate blog and get it to rank for target keywords along with optimizing it both on- and off-site. /r/JustStart is a good place to learn more about the process but as others have stated, practical, real-world knowledge will take you farther than schooling.
Start working. Practical education is real education. Universities are waste of time. You will learn more in a 6 months than entire period of university. 
Having one source of truth is important. If you report using each individual platform, you will over-report conversions because the users of each individual channel are not only using that channel when they browse the internet and therefore could be touched by multiple ads from your company. If you use platform conversion numbers, there is a chance some of those conversions are also being counted by other platforms.

Example: say a customer clicked on a search ad with a 7 day conversion window in Google Ads, didn’t buy anything and then came back 2 days later when they clicked on a FB ad and purchased. If you use platform reporting both of those are considered conversions. 

If you use google analytics as your source of truth then GA attributes the sale (likely, if attribution settings are the default) to the last channel they touched. Meaning you would know how many individual sales / conversions happened.

Granted, this is assuming you don’t have some sort of platform specific lead campaign where the conversion is a lead form that is filled out in the platform and in that case platform reporting is fine. 

Hope this helps.
Google Analytics.. Period. I work in a law firm, so the necessary data may be different in terms of what you're analyzing, but I love GA. 
As an omni channel agency one of the things we do in an audit is make sure all of the data is flowing correctly which leads to confirmations pixel/trackers are firing. Sometimes hard coded pixels fall off.

That's in addition to often times setting up goals/conversion KPIs because we often see no goals or poorly configured.

Basically if you're optimizing for a conversion and you've got it dialed in you technically don't care about the costs of impressions or clicks if CPA and true ROAS is being measured. Indeed if you are optimized in retargeting you might be able to bid MORE for an individual visitor because you know they're higher value.

The problem with single platform conversion tracking when the data is siloed, doesn't communicate and isn't transparent is you're most likely missing out on cross platform attribution and consumer journey efficiencies.

Digital marketing should all work together and each campaign gives the others lift. The data should ideally reinforce the other platforms and provide strategic insight. Then you can get into the advanced programmatic products like connected TV, connected audio and native. 

ESPECIALLY if it's all being run internally.
Personally I use the conversion metric in Facebook, google ads etc. but I set all my campaign or goals on the outcome; Filled in a form and Made a purchase these things are not always caught by this method. 
I have a follow-up about this.

&#x200B;

I work for an agency that only does social ads. However some of our clients are running other digital marketing campaigns. We provide them with the metrics from Facebook's platform, but we've had an issue in the past where they say it doesn't match their GA. I told them that GA conversions are attributed to the most recent platform.. but is there a way to indicate in GA that this conversion ALSO was served a Facebook ad?

&#x200B;

Would creating a GA url with UTM tracking help indicate that this visitor originated from Facebook? Even if they click the Facebook ad, but then convert after doing a google search a few days later?
I think it's better to have a consistent source since you can't really trust any individual one. We know that the numbers are being manipulated by each, so having them on one at least let's them be manipulated in the same way so you're not comparing apples to oranges.

GA is probably the best way to do this, and it integrates nicely with Tag Manager which is really powerful for tracking site use.
Go to local marketing meetups or association events. Ask around and you will find something. 
I guess - face to face meeting from internet are hard esp through comments. But google is the answer to everything. 

Use trial and error to learn and be open-minded 
I would love this too.. I live in an area where there aren't meetups
Hey, I'm a 4 years programmer and all I could tell you is this;

1: Mentor is expensive. Even if you found out, no one would teach or carry you to the peak of the mountain for free. I found this the hard way and that even if this mentor were legit, you'll still have to pay an "x" amount to get things started. 

2: Google is your best friend. Like seriously. Even when I got stuck in coding or whatsoever that is related to programming - (I googled, and found my solutions there, no mentor or whatsoever lol). Google is like everyone's best friend/mentor. If you know how to dig, you'll get the finest gem on the internet.

3: Digital marketing is so freaking easy. Unlike traditional marketing, digital marketing is all related to advertisement and speaking about ads, it's all online ads. Go google a thing or two about online ads and how it works specifically on different platforms will help you understand the foundation of Digital marketing. 

4: Don't get mixed up between Digital Marketing versus Content Marketing. It's a 2 different story. So always remember this.

5: Last but not least, it's all about the experience. Find what works and stick right to it. Always remember, different environment/circumstances require different kinds of digital marketing strategy. So keep on backtesting and keep the data in excel. That way, you know how to tackle different projects with a set of proven strategies. 
It will be tumblr
  

Pixar has a cute 404 not found page. Also GitHub has geek out with the error message over a mouse rollover. 
Do not use Yext. It's a lifetime subscription or they pull your citations. Use Whitespark for Local SEO software. They are great.
check out Uberall, screw Yext
Yext is pretty pointless. It's better to find listing sites manually, or use services like SEMRush, whitespark, or SEO Powersuite.
I didn't think Yext was worth the money. I'd recommend WhiteSpark or finding them yourself.
Digital marketing is an all encompassing term that can mean a variety of tactics used to increase consumer interest.

It would generally include Search Engine Marketing, Search Engine Optimization, display advertisements, social media ads, reputation management, influencers, email marketing, CRM, video advertisements, websites, content/asset creation, online chat, call tracking, digital retailing...  There are always new forms of online marketing, tagging, media, and reporting technology coming out.

I think the next growth sector in the digital marketing industry is data science.
Look at who the customer is that you want to serve. For example, if your focus is on small businesses or e-commerce, then most of their monthly budget goes to SEO, social media marketing (organic, not paid) with some Facebook marketing. 

If your focus is on local, main street businesses, then you should add in Yelp, Google My Business, local SEO etc. 

If your focus is professional services, like accountants etc. then yes, lead gen, content marketing etc. come into play.
"conversion rate optimisation"
Digital Marketing is a very wide topic. I'd suggest you focus on specialising in any one service and then go from there.

Some services you could offer clients:

1. SEO - Search Engine Optimization
2. Web Design
3. PPC Adwords Management
4. Social Media Management
5. App Development
6. Content Writing  Services
7. Online Reputation Management

and the list goes on.

Try to focus on one and master it. Or you might end up dabbling here and there without actually specialising in anything. Just my 2 cents.
Do you mean post an article that references your business, and then put budget behind it? 

I wouldn’t put too much budget behind it because you always want people coming to your own website rather than someone else’s. Perhaps create a blog post on your own website with the same information, with a link to the original article and put budget on that. 

Then if you’ve setup Facebook pixel, you can at least re-target these potential customers afterwards rather than just sending them to a news website and hoping for the best 

Good luck! 
There's no right or wrong. But people may end up clicking the link to Guardian instead of you
I don't believe you can boost that post type. 
I think your starting point if $80k/year full time is alright...  I’d recommend getting someone local so it’s easier to collaborate.  Like anything else in the world, you are going to get what you pay for.  

I can tell you that whoever you hire is going to end up doing more than those 4 points you laid out.  
Where are you based out of? 80k in rural PA is a lot different than 80k in NYC.
Cut the salary and offer some of your profits.. let's say that you offer  a commission. That way your fella will be motivated to really help you. 
If you want someone offshore, you can PM, I worked as a digital marketing manager for 2.5 years in my country and now I am working from home.
Yeah, consider a freelance consultant for this expectation. It will lower your initial costs and potentially allow for a relationship to grow.

There is also the possibility that you can hire an intern to handle your social media and allocate more media budget for conversions/leads.
depends if you charge for your hours or your expertise?

If you charge for hours then you can ONLY ever earn so much as you're limiting your working scope.
Anything from $1.5 - $2k. 
Concepts haven't really changed. Mediums have, access to data has improved, but understanding fundamental concepts have not.

You're never going to be on top of technology, it moves too fast.

Also, networking with classmates and professors is unbelievably important. I've never gotten a job from just applying -- always a reference, thanks to my networking in college and after.
I went to school for Civil Engineering, and found a problem solving mindset is more valuable than anything you memorize or read in textbooks during college. The algorithms change on a daily basis, so the best way to learn is by doing and developing pattern recognition based on the analytics you are capturing for all efforts and campaigns. 

People can say what they learned in school was "helpful", but the reality is that digital marketing is results based, so as long as you get results that is all that matters. 
I'm also curious. When I went to school for Marketing we only had a Digital Marketing course 4 years ago. I can't see Digital Marketing courses being very resourceful because all the info would have to continuously be updated.
It depends of what you're looking up as specialization. If you wanna be a Data Specialist, a tech background is more helpful. Content Specialist? Maybe Journalism be more proper. Do you wanna be a Digital Marketing Manager, managing a team and making business decisions? So, I think Business Administration degree might be the right choice.
Making it a hobby to maintain a website, social media accnts & a newsletter database is a great way to learn about different fields of digital marketing, then when you find one area that really sparks your curiosity, like SEO or Data Analytics, dive into that rabbit hole.

Find a CMS (content management system). Learn to upload content on your own, creating SEO friendly pages. Check out WPBeginner. Good site if WordPress is your choice of CMS.

Link it to Google and go trough all the latest tutorials and resources. Analytics, Ads, Tag Manager and Search Console are good places to start.

Try selling ad space or a product/service/subscription. 

Create a newsletter and automate the delivery process. Mailchimp is free up to a certain number of people.

Use a social media planner like Hootsuite or the free Buffer.

Create and schedule content for a month, or two. Press play.

Subscribe to blogs, follow industry leaders to stay up to date on trends.

I feel that could be a semester's worth of courses to go through with a class.



It was worth mainly because of my surroundigs. The only thing you learn from all courses, was how to survive in sertaine circumstanses created by proffesors and get a degree) The most usefull things which i learned was lectures with professors and teachers who owned their own bussiness and could give real cases and knowlege. I think it's common situation for everyone nowdays....
Hi, 

I don't think so.

If you want to do a marketing course, you can opt for an online course. You can join a company a start working to get hands-on experience.

Hope this helps

Thanks
A degree is useful but with the fast changing pace of markeing (especially digital marketing) you neet to keep up with the developments.  A degree cannot teach you everything and tell you how to proceed in the different scenarios you come across in your everytday work.  This can only be learnt in a practical way while on the job (just like driving).
I'm relatively early in my career, but I think there's a niche out there for people who can do both. Digital marketing can be a bit technical, and having someone around who knows the tech side can save a lot of time and headache. 

Whether it's testing JavaScript events firing for retargeting pixels, doing SEO initiatives that include things like mobile responsiveness or page size/speed, even just debugging a CRM workflow can be made way easier with a little technical knowledge.

I found it easiest to start with SEO. Since I was already doing web development, SEO was little more than learning some basic "best practices" while making websites. From there you can get into analytics, targeting, CRMs, etc.

Best of luck!
Yes. I have a background in IT and easily transitioned into SEO. I previously worked as a front-end developer and became more interested in traffic/lead gen and eventually trasntioned into a full time SEO role. UI/UX is very important for SEO and knowledge of HTML/CSS/JS can get you very far. Technical SEO pays very well.
There is always a need for CS or Engineers in Digital Marketing.  There seems to be a shortage of employees who are both technical, and capable of client/account management/biz dev.  Most of the CS/Engineering people I work with are kept pretty far away from clients.  There is a lot of money to be made for the CS/Engineer who can also do biz dev.

Most of the CS or Engineering people I know in the industry work in depth on analytics and/or CRM/DMS tools, or they code. 
I do this.  I've been doing it for 10+ years and I'm always in demand.  I have been able to add a lot of value wherever I go and career wise I am very happy I took this path.  I'm pretty senior now, but every once and a while I get to write code or sql to solve and it's like a super power to those that don't have any idea where to start.

A lot of marketing these days has very technical plumbing, so being able to understand how to read API docs, the underlying data structures that are in place etc. go a long way towards being successful.
E-commerce development roles eventually led to managing marketing campaigns with multiple startups, to VP Marketing & Tech. at current larger organization. There is a synergy between all sides of e-commerce, so if you're interested in learning more toward the CMO vs. CTO side, it's definitely possible (and in my personal career, more rewarding for me long term. In any case, good to wear and learn multiple hats only will elevate your value.
I've got a degree in CS and I'm pursuing a full time career as digital marketer. I was running a number of blogs back when I started doing CS, so naturally I was inclined towards SEO and Adsense. That brought me a step closer to this field. Later on, I kickstarted my own webdesign company and needed to do plenty of marketing to generate sales. So these early experienced really helped me in the career. Down the road, I did get pretty much acquainted with most of the industry tools, marketing techniques and copywriting. 
I'm a die hard Unbounce fan. I like the content they create (that's what originally drew me to them as a content marketer) I think their platform is super flexible, easy to use, and way more affordable than something like Lead Pages. I never cared for Lead Pages. Besides the price, it wasn't nearly as easy to customize the pages, add scripts, etc. 
Have recently tried almost every one of them but none convinced me. Now I am using Wix to do landing pages and it works quite well.

I like the UX, options and elements that are available. Maybe not the obvious choice but can work out pretty good.
Yes, don't get hung up on titles thinking you only do one thing or another. In some cases, the digital person would be in charge of social planning, posting, and advertising. It just depends on the company structure and the actual job duties.
Definitely. But be very careful about the jobs - there is a difference between companies taking social serious and those that just want an intern (or a junior being paid intern level wages) running their facebook.
Is this not the same thing really though? I've always done both. It actually can get to the point where we had to hire a social person to do the grind work under me.
Sign up for Google Partners and take the AdWords certification course. 

You’ll learn their ads platform & earn a certification, which you can leverage to get clients or on a job resume. 
find free udemy courses . Study SMO, SEM, SEO, Analytics and you'll be solid. You could pursue a nano degree on udemy but there are plenty of free resources out there. 
Digital marketing is broad discipline with many areas of specialization, e.g email marketing, paid search, social media, paid social, display advertising, programmatic, analytics, SEO, conversion rate optimization, content... If you’re fortunate to work for a startup with a budget to support, learn all of these things and more then pick an area to specialize in. 

Learn some SQL, HTML/CSS, javascript. You don’t need to be a programmer but having some knowledge will make you a much stronger digital marketer. 
Udacity is another source as well, but you could find and study all the information yourself for free if you surf the web a little bit
You need a good tool for collecting emails and sending emails to your prospect so it will go to their inbox without going into the spam folder or junk. A lot of digital marketers use autoresponders to help collect emails and schedule times to send out emails during certain times or days. It is a really good way if you are going to create content like video tutorials, ebooks, or other information. It is good to have to continue promoting your brand or your service you are providing. Keeping them up to date with what you are doing if you want to notify them with a new blog post or a news. 

There are a few good Autoresponders out their, but the monthly fee really bits in your budget. Also, they have caps depending on the type of business or amount of emails you are reaching. I did come across a autoresponder that is really good for digital marketing and does the same as the others like Aweber, Get Response, and others. 

You just have to pay a one time fee of $50 instead of paying $19.00 a month or $50 a month for the same results. If you want to learn more let me know.
I've been dealing with this problem for the last 3 months in Canada. Unfortunately legitscript doesn't extend to Canada so we've been using FB and Bing along with other marketing practices
In the US you cant use FB to advertise treatment centers without LegitScript clearance. Technically you can but it's against their TOS to circumvent them on either FB or Google. Bing is our market right now.
What got me the expert status was watching all the recorded webinar. But I think they are reserved only for customers. You can look up Pardot Webinars on google and land on their site.
I recently started using Pardot and have found it difficult to find quality information on how to accomplish certain things on the platform. It is much easier if you have access to the tool, but if you don't, you can learn the fundamentals by looking at the documentation. Trailblazer is also a great way to learn, but as another user mentioned, I believe you can only access it by purchasing Pardot. I have other suggestions for you if you already have access to Pardot, so let me know if you do.
Google 'Trailhead Pardot'
Many of the helpful guides are protected until you have an account to log-in. At least this was the case about a year ago. 
Also depends on demo. If your selling diabetes testing supplies you’ll spend more on traditional TV. iPhone accessories is probably 100% digital marketing.
Often 3-5% of revenue in retail, but it does vary depending on the lifecycle of the business. 
Fitness, supplements, weight loss brands should factor up to 20% of revenue to be spent on ads due to the sheer competition 
Not exactly the same, but I had to make a press release and a flier for a low level marketing job. I was stressed out about not having enough info, but in the end I had to tell myself that as long as you are showing off your abilities and can justify your decisions it doesn't matter if the details are perfect.

Granted, I didn't get another interview, but at least the work got done.

All that is to  say, they probably just want to see what you can do and that you know what you're talking about. Keep that in mind and don't sweat the details. Hope that helps!
Agreed to the previous comment. I think they are also testing your research skills. On top of that, I don’t think they restrict you from asking questions! 
I've also had to do similar things before. It's usually a good sign: someone in that company thinks you're worth taking the extra time and energy to look at that calendar that you're going to put together. 

Don't stress! They know you don't have enough information. If it makes you feel better, you can always add a page that lists the assumptions you had to make, and why you chose to make the ones you did.

Practical tasks like this help separate people who know what they're talking about from people who are very good at presenting themselves, but might have less hands-on ability.
This is a cool tool, thanks for sharing.  I have a coupe of questions though:

* Where are you getting the benchmark data from?  
* How reliable is that data?
Any advertising and marketing has a very low floor and very high ceiling.

Show up early, do good work, make sure your boss knows your name and you’re a solid team member.

Go in on in agency opportunities to get around the leadership group.

Always keep an ear to the ground on the job market. After 2 years you’re probably underpaid.
Without sounding to obvious, experience trumps all - the more experience you have, the higher up the salary ladder you'll climb.

£25-30k would be normal for entry level marketing roles, with 2 years experience you could/should be aiming for closer to £30k. Have you had a pay review in work? That's the easiest way to jump up a few K without doing to much. Once you have 3 or 4 years experience, you should be looking at £30-50k+.

Generally speaking, the easiest way to get an increase in salary is by changing roles / company and getting a better job with a better pay package. Internal promotions with a substantial salary jump would be harder to achieve.

Qualifications - consider doing a masters or other post grad certs in things like digital strategy, data analytics etc - this is currently where the money is. Digital resources, have a look on this subreddit, there are a ton of good posts on what you can do in your spare time to upskill.

TLDR: keep working hard, get experience, and look what else is on offer in terms of jobs.
By Showing Your Past Work.

and for that you can work as a freelancer. It is highly profitable.
What I have learned and am currently doing is a New Age Consultant regarding a niche and in my case possibly yours is to provide a  niched down service using marketing/ads to find customers/clients. Sales is definitely a key and charge monthly plus adspend. You will soon scale to your annual in a month. Other words called a freelancer. Hope that stirs some thoughts.
For you. Engagements, cost per engagement, and relevance score.

What is the goal of the ad though? Awareness of the coffee shop?
One thing you could consider is giving people who like your page a special code for like 50% off the coffee. It would prove to your client that you’re driving traffic into the store because the customer would mention some secret code you give them on Facebook.

You can think of lots of permutations of this but the pin to is to get attribution for your work.
If you’re running an engagement ad, watch the engagement metric... lol

So cost per like, cost per share, and CPM is what you should focus on. 

Also keep in mind to always watch your Frequency. There’s a direct correlation between a higher frequency with higher cost per results. 

I usually switch up creatives/audiences once my frequency hits 3.5 
FB's help section lists out the best KPIs for each goal type. For you, yeah engagements and cost per engagements.
Use the Ads Reporting tab if you haven't already - great for digging deep into each campaigns success!
Hi there

Mostly in digital ads, need to be analysed like,  

CTR = cost per click = How many people do click ads

CVR = conversion rate = after clicking ads and then how many people buy or look though your product or content

blur blur.... Google it some digital marketing terms. get use to it, and then you can see what you have to see :D

&#x200B;
Depends on your objective. Is it to drive sales - Then CPA. Is it to generale leads - Then CPL.
Is it for awareness - Then CTR, might also include CPL
you may check semrush or similarweb, they give some ideas about traffic and geo details even if you dont have control on that website.
\+SEMRUsh+Spyfu+Alexa. com/siteinfo+SimilarWeb = Avg Visitor
Don't ow  it as in it belongs to a client, or don't own it as in you don't know who is affiliated to it at all?
Look into Hitwise, it's estimated data but it's pretty spot on for general trends in traffic and search volume etc 
First, need to install Analytics tools that can track data, so u got real data to back up your story.

Setup Google Tag Manager, Google Analytic Goal, Facebook Pixel, Ghostery, Create Google Dashboard with Google Spreadsheet that auto update the stats, Track your conversion by masking your link with Google Campaign URL Builder, Setup Hotjar, Make sure you the whole funnel is setup before driving traffic or measuring it, e.g Autoresponder setup that won't complete with analytic setup within the Autoresponder. On the site you want to predict traffic

Ok, after setup, then you need to setup campaign to drive traffic

You can track your traffic strategy effectiveness by testing the ads quality, the landing page element, and the target audience. so u have to run some test campaign, to see if your strategy yield result. U need to do a lot of testing to devise a proven system that you can confident offer your traffic solution.

So if I were you focus on Facebook Ads, Facebook insight and Facebook Analytic or Google Adwords, master either one first. And I usually suggest learning Facebook Ads first.

Then, monitor your traffic and run for a month, then u can have historic data to work with where u can project the future
you could do this via Google Ads using the keyword tool but that's only an estimate. As you start to run campaigns you'll discover more keywords will should increase the traffic.

You cannot make a solid estimate for this, just a informed guess
grab screen caps of your most popular posts - showing the engagement. Show campaigns you made, info graphics etc

then download some stats from each platform's analytics or from Google analytics showing social traffic, focus on each day if you have to - show traffic, new visitors, bounce rates, dwell time.
Capture and present anything you think shows strong engagement and if you have sales data attributed to social then even better.

Maybe look at each campaign or month by month and present stats for that. There's so many ways of doing it.

What would YOU want to see if someone were showing you their profile?
You can always mention the FB page and download the statistics of each campaign you made. 
If you have set up Facebook pixel and Google Analytics Goal, you can track your conversion rate. If u created a Google Dashboard with Google Spreadsheet u can find helpful data there.

Use similarweb.com Facebook and Google Analytics to get meaningful stats related to your efforts.

Eg which link is inbound link to client website? Was it from your social post? What is the engagement rate?


You gotta just commit to switching. I finally did it at the beginning of July. After about 2 weeks of frustration I got the hang of it, and now prefer it. Just do it. There are necessary features in there that you are missing out on. Do. It.
Actually i'm using both. There's some improvements (like the copy paste function) but some stuff just seems... Off with the new design
I was just discussing this with my SVP when he called me up for navigation help while lurking one of our campaigns. The new change seems less “Google friendly, intuitive design”  initially (IMO) but it’s starting to vibe with me.
it feels too much like a CRM system like salesforce to me - but I am using it now - it's not that bad and certainly quicker to load and apply changes. That old Java interface was laid out perfectly but was very clunky
I think I prefer the new interface for the most part. There were a couple of features I couldn't find and ended up switching back for but on the whole I do like the new look.

But I tend to do my ads in Editor and pull everything into Data Studio so I don't need to use it that much anyway now. 
Make sure ya don’t have any non compete issues!  Focusing on any specialities or just offering everything? 
Experience, digital marketing is about experience. Do not fall victim to credentialism. Figure out what you want to do in marketing. Understand what you’ll need to break into that role and then build out your portfolio of that work. Google and analytics are enough, now seriously focus on experience. 
Build your personal brand, create a website, generate traffic, use your experience to figure this out. Use a blog to detail your experiences and what you've learned so far. 

This will mean more for you and to prospective businesses. 

Marketing is all about showing you can do the work not certifications. 
I'm going to play devil's advocate. Certifications for a recent college grad show interest and may put you a a little bit above the competition. Twitter Flight School is a good one to show some social. People telling you to gain experience need to realize that is 1000x easier said that done. Of course any freelance work is a great opportunity, but there are thousands of entry level positions in some areas. Same goes with blogging. Writing a meaningful blog at this stage is quite difficult, and honestly, most people will not be very interested in what you have to say at this stage. 
I've been looking into this recently as well. So far I've narrowed it down to The Digital Marketing Institute which has an online Post Graduate Diploma in Digital Marketing programme and Full Sail which has an Internet Marketing Degree. I've actually been in advertising/digital marketing for over 10 years but pretty much got my foot in the door and worked my way up. Now transitioning from head of digital in an ad agency to a digital marketing manager at an international bank. In my case experience alone got me pretty far but my new employer is saying I have to get certified. So basically experience is great but getting properly certified is necessary too depending on your career path. 
It's not specifically for automation, but if you want deeper insights into your data, look at Tableau.  I started using it late last year and it's simply incredible how it parses your data.  
I use Google Sheets through a Zapier integration. All the power of a spreadsheet and more so I never have to worry about platform limitations. 
Hi there! I would recommend DashThis, there's a lot of good reviews on G2Crowd, even some tutorials on youtube. Let me know if you like it! :)
[removed]
There are a bunch of tools that can help you. If you want a set-it-and forget it approach check out recurpost. Otherwise, Buffer is fine too. 
I love Sprout Social. You can cross post to Twitter, FB, and Insta (kinda). Schedule your posts ahead of time and be plugged into FB’s API to see all kinds of data. I also love it bc I manage a ton of Ads and I can moderate and comment on my paid ads too. 

Zapier has a great integration with Slack, we use it in a variety of ways. Depends upon what you exactly wanna do. 
!remindme 1 week
I work in a market with a similar customer base (B2B sales primarily to engineers) and here is my advice to you.

You can’t fight Google’s mobile push. It is what is is, and it’s better to go with the flow and try to make your site mobile friendly instead of fighting it and being punished. It’s not really fair but they are the 800 lb gorilla, so when they say jump you say how high.

Yes, our target market may prefer to view datasheets on a big screen and probably does a lot of searching on desktop computers because it happens during work hours.

But that is no excuse to not make your site mobile friendly. Use a framework that is responsive and you won’t need to maintain separate desktop and mobile sites. About 15% of my traffic is mobile now. It doesn’t do me any good to say “these people should be finding me on a desktop!”, it’s better to serve them well with whatever device they use to find you.

I try and follow all of the main “best practices” for sites these days and I rank well in my niche and have steady year/year growth in search results and very good sales growth.

Beyond that, you could always retarget to these same people who land on your site using desktop-only ads, a lot of platforms and social media sites let you specify your ads be served to specific device types.

However, I think it’s best to make your site mobile friendly and let your customers tell you how they want to view your content.
Set mobile device adjustments at the campaign level in adwords at - 100%
My advice about the images is that if you are not sure where these images come from and you don't know the license I would avid them. There are ton of websites that offer free images that you can use to post it on Instagram. Also it is a good idea to take some of your own images and post it. Maybe create some graphics with a tool like Canva. For free images you can use Google advanced image search where you can tell Google to search for images that are free to use for commercial use. 

But still check for license before posting the image, just in case. 
If you do not know the license of an image, it is safe to assume somebody holds the copyright and has not allowed its use. There are a ton of places you can find free images; Pexels is one example. You can also do a CC license search on Flickr or 500px.

Even if you don't expect any legal ramifications, it's just a bad thing to do. If your startup grows big, you do not want something as minor as this to come bite you in the ass.
A site that I find very helpful is Unsplash[dot]com, all images are free on this site.
I wouldn’t waste your time. Getty Images is one of the most ruthless of all the license holders. They won’t hesitate to sue you. There are too many free resources out there to even waste your time considering this idea. 
Honestly, I can’t see why you wouldn’t make at least some money with digital marketing in your first month. I mean if you’re looking to just get started then post some ads on your local Craigslist and renew the ad every 2 days. Or post a gig on Fiverr. You can even make an account on Upwork and respond to other people posting gigs.

The biggest barrier you’ll face is a.) your own self doubts and b.) your inability to progress because you’ll feel uncomfortable as you change. 

Learn to be comfortable being uncomfortable.
Well it's an year now, no money in sight 😖
2 months since starting my company, but I did have connections with my first client. My biggest barriers are the general outlook on digital marketing and competing with the teenaged daughters of business owners (since they view what they do and professional digital marketing to be the same thing). 
2 month. Depending on what you want to do, I'd go for an Online Congress model.

We built an instant expert status in our field and are now considered the biggest expert in our topic in the country. Also, we built a list of 9k+ followers/leads, of which 600+ have now bought our product, which made us 40k+ (That's EUR)

We're now working on the second product (online-course on implementing the learning from the congress) and are launching it right now to the list. Day 2 of 6 and we're at 5k+.

1. Basically, you invite loads of people that have knowledge about the topic to an interview via Skype/Zoom and interview them for 30-120 minutes. Also, you ask themfor some kind of bonus material/course/ebook/freebee to give the viewers.

2. You build an optin-page on which people interested in the topic sign up to watch the interviews for free for 24h. (for example: 10 day congress, 2 interviews per day and you can watch the 2 interviews only on the day they're released)

3. People that sign up late or want the interviews immediately can pay for the "Congress Package" with all interviews in video & audio, as well as an ebook with the 10 best lessons from each interview in textform and bonuses the experts gave you to give the viewers (those are only available in the paid package). IMPORTANT: The package costs way less while the congress is live and will increase to the "original/normal" price afterwards. The scarcity for live-events is among the biggest I've seen for a product launch of any kind. We went with 87€ reduced and 247€ normal.

4. ???

5. Win-Win-Win. (a) The Experts get tons of exposure, as well as 50% of every sale they generate via their affiliate-links (which also drives most of the traffic and sales; 60% in our case). (b) The viewers get expert-interviews on their topic for free, if they take the time to watch them live. (c) you get a huge list, instant expert-status and loads of money from the congress package sales.

Have fun implementing. Also, I love helping, so questions are very welcome :)
[deleted]
Oh the irony.
[deleted]
There's no one strategy. It really depends on your skill set, what you have to offer and who you can access. But one tip, start local. There's got to be a nearby gym, restaurant, salon or mom and pop store that could use your help. Reach out to all of them (the ones you've been to before of course) and offer to help.

If you have the time and resources, get one client for free so you can build a portfolio, then use that client to get other clients. 

Good luck!
Fiverr is the worst place to find clients for digital marketing.
Market yourself, perhaps digitally? 
Look for local startups, check if they have an online presence. If they lack one, boom, you got your first potential client .
Start networking. You'll get work through who you know. Take a lot of coffee meetings! Meet 3 new people from LinkedIn a week. 
I have seen videos about getting client through yelp, I didn’t understand that , anybody having any clue ??
Haha, i remember when i was in your position, when we think that marketing other people products is easy because is a b2c, and the marketing agency is a b2b, at the end of the day it's all Marketing and Sales, and b2c, and b2b = people, i highly recommend learning how to approach business and lead sourcing, if you're not good at closing clients, i have a video where i share a strategy that i used to scale my agency, if you're interested DM me and i'll send you the link :) 
Build yourself a great website. Reach out to friends to see if your type of services would be needed at their places of business. Approach a small business. Go to lots of networking events. 

Great work with one or two initial clients will bring more.
So you're apparently a marketing guy, but you cannot market your own business, or have no ideas.

Fucking hell mate, seriously just give up, you're an amateur.
Check out Marketo's template as well. Similar to Hubspot but a nice update. 
Hi, are you sorted with an answer for this dilemma? I work as a digital marketer at an Inbound Marketing company and we are constantly are creating, refining and updating our buyer personas for our clients, we get this question a lot so we wrote a summary about creating them, in simple terms there are 8 steps which you can read about here: https://ukuinbound.com/8-steps-to-creating-a-kick-ass-buyer-persona/ 

Let me know if this was helpful or if you need more assistance.

Second what Cyborg23 has said. Digital marketing will always be in demand. The beauty of it is that you can learn the skill completely through online courses and do it remotely.

For SEO, take a Google AdWords and Analytics course, then find a client who would like you to manage their SEO rankings. 

Other courses you can take are Facebook Blueprint, Hubspot.

Since you noted that you are an electrician — you could possibly do electric consulting or design PCB remotely. 

Another thing that I’ve done to gain side money is actually research/market surveys found on Craigslist. If you live in a techie area or near a University, these places are always doing consumer studies, usually an hour long in exchange for an avg of $50-100 
I would start working in Google Data Studio, you can use the demo data connectors and build some awesome reports. It is a free product and makes for a great talking point during any Digital Marketing interview as it is one of the newer products, which means that not every agency has someone who knows how to use it — making you that much more valuable.  

You will also gain a very good understanding of the google suite of products practicing with google Data Studio, which is something that agencies want.
[deleted]
I would definitely look at social media management. Look for small restaurants and other stores in your local area. I guarantee a few have terrible pages you can help with. You just need a couple and you can easily bring in 24K (2K/month). 
Go for Social media Marketing, its creative and fun!
***what will get you paid right away working from your laptop(that you can learn in a week)***

* webdesign
* video editing
* social media page management(posting, content creation)
* Copy writing
* graphic design(logos, flyers, business cards, stationary etc)

8 hours a day of learning and doing, learning and practicing, you'll be good enough in a week tops to sell your services to people that need them.
open two web browsers, if you have windows drag one to the left side of the screen with youtube videos on it showing you exactly how to do one thing you want to learn.

take the other window or program or word writer, whatever the task you need to do

and do it step by step for 16 to 18 hours a day

watch the youtube video for 30 seconds, 

go to the program, web site design, graphic desinger, etc w.e you choose to do 

do that exact action for 30 seconds

back and forth back and forth

learning through action, learning through experience

you'll be able to sell whatever skill you learned as a service in one week 

stay connected keep me updated on your progress. and we can work together and help you build that location based freedom income

PS: my bro is a electrician
As someone who's been in the industry for a few years, it shouldn't be hard to reach that level. However, it is extremely competitive even though demand is high (the demand is usually for low paying jobs).

Anyway, learn the basics of digital marketing then get good at something that is not widespread. Adwords, SEO, Facebook management, etc are all widespread. Rather try and go into the data side of things and get good at the 'smaller' tools (i.e the tools most digital marketers know about but aren't particularly good at using). Some examples of this would be Google Data Studio, Google Tag Manager and Google Optimize.

Keep in mind that data is king in this industry so that's what I would stick to, if I were you.
If you're trying to work as a freelancer, the biggest thing you'll need to learn is how to sell yourself and build relationships with clients. 

If you have an industry vertical that you know well (like home renovation) and you have contacts with a bunch of contractors, reach out to them and set up meetings with them over lunch. Learn how to put together a basic proposal and think about pricing (which can be tricky).

See if you can sign up some clients to provide basic marketing services -- SEO/reputation management, paid social, SEM. Keep the products/solutions simple and don't overpromise results. Make sure you agree to a setup fee if you're doing a ton of work up front! Don't just charge a % of media spend if you're going to be putting in 35 hours of work in the first few weeks. Also incentivize them to upgrade their spend with you and don't worry so much about the exact level of the management fee at first. You'll make way more off a client that stays with you for a year and pays 15% vs one that pays 30% but only lasts two months. 


Most marketers I know do this, and I do work at a fairly large agency. You generally just need to be careful that you’re not competing with your agency (particularly if you signed a non-compete) and I’d recommend staying away from your agency’s verticals entirely if possible. You also should avoid anything unethical, like working with your agency’s former clients or offering your services to a client on the side. Finally, you have to be very careful to keep your day job and your side job separate — any side work should not be done on agency time. So in other words, no bringing your personal laptop into work to do side projects; it’s a bad idea to do this at work even if you’re on your lunch break. And yes, if it becomes known to your direct supervisor that you have side clients, your behavior and communications will probably be more closely scrutinized, so be prepared for that. 
I don’t care if it’s frowned upon or not, you have bills to pay. Freelance as much as you can and don’t tell anybody about it. Also, do you think the founders of your current agency wouldn’t have “hustled” and made money on the side if they weren’t paid enough at their job? You’re only useful to them if you make them money otherwise they’ll fire you without a care in the world. Have to look out for yourself. 
Just curious ( because I was one step from moving to the UK last year , and look for a  PPC entry level job ) . How much are these jobs paying ? Is it worth it ? Are they hard to find?


Regarding to your question, freelance as much as you can. 
Agree with jackduluoz007. You can do it, but be careful. In addition to his points, Don't use any work tools to freelance. So if you have access to social media monitoring tools at work, you shouldn't use them for freelancing, even if it's outside of work hours. You really want to keep both gigs completely separate. But if you can do that, it shouldn't be a problem. 
If your contract doesn't have a non-compete clause, go for it. If that clause is there, smart agency owners will be ok with it. My last job knew, and that actually referred me some clients that weren't a fit for the agency. 
Your 100&#37; right, all the best for your future agency.
I wouldn’t do it unless you need the money. You will be paranoid everyday thinking they might find out.
Google gives charities free AdWords credit every month. Volunteer a few hrs a week to do DM for a local charity or two. 
When I started freelancing, I posted on different forums to do free of cost campaign preparation in exchange for testimonial/reference. If the customer approved my work, I stayed on board for a week and help fine tune the campaign for them.  No charges for my services except for a healthy testimonial. If they liked my services to continue, I offered my services on a retainer. After 3 weeks, I had 9 campaigns prepared and 3 full time customers. One of which eventually became a full time employer.
Hoping to see some great responses to this post. I am in a similar position. 
They are right though you really don't know shit unless you're running campaigns.

Kind of the paradox of all jobs.

Love the charity idea.
I started out creating a crappy WordPress website for my favorite hobby and then just created an AdWords campaign directing people to it. After that I talked to a few small businesses in my area and offered my services for free and yeah that's about it.
Unfortunately, the Google certificates don't mean anything, unless, as you said you get real world experience. One of the recommendations in this thread pointed out that charities are a good place to start as they are given a grant account, with google credits to spend (it is quite a bit limited, but a good learning ground).

I would definitely try reaching out to any charity with a website and offering to help them up setting up their account AdWords grant account or helping managing it. 

Once you're in, I would try and get as much experience as possible in a short amount of time, i.e. setting up you new campaigns, creating new ads to improve their quality score, create more extensions, etc. 

The good thing with these accounts is that you can't fuck it up haha
You just need little guidance from someone who has had previous experience and you need some support as to how you can practice and hone your skills. With a proper plan it’s very easy. 

I could start you off with a free Google AdWords basics courses. I don’t want to sound promotional . If you need the url I could share it . 

Cheers,

KC
Do pro-bono work for a few non-profits and document everything to build case studies and testimonials.
You asked, "What should I work on to be able to have a junior position at an agency?"

At this point, you will need to start building a portfolio of work. So make note of digital marketing work you've done for a company, a non-profit organization, an internship or your own products you're selling. Basically look at job posting for a junior position and work to get the listed skills on that job posting. 

You asked, "What kind of position should I look for based on my certifications?"

That comes down to what interest you. It's not that difficult to land a digital position, you just need to show you have the willingness to learn, have the skills to help grow a business and that you know what you're supposed to do. 

So, read guides and watch some carefully selected videos for different aspects of digital marketing. So for SEO, Moz guide is good and Neil Patel quicksprout guide on online marketing is good as well for digital marketing in general. Brad Geddes AdWords book, WordStream, Klientboost, Paid Search Podcast and Reddit PPC are great starting points for AdWords. 

The main thing is implementing what you're learning, chronicling it and having your resume/cv reflect your work along with your portfolio. 
I actually got started in marketing by doing an entry level cold calling position, then moving into content marketing, marketing operations, and now working as a digital marketer/email strategist. The last three seem to be very tied to paid media and SEO and are great jumping off points for any of the above. If you can find entry level in any of these, you will gain excellent experience and skills that can be applied to other marketing jobs, and usually companies are comfortable with people moving laterally to a more desired position once you’ve found what interest you, or will let you pick up responsibilities that might interest you but aren’t quite the role. That’s how I’ve made my way around marketing- there’s always so much to learn that is applicable, you can’t really go wrong.

I’ve found if you’re AdWords certified then that’s a huge bonus. If you can code HTML or CSS that’s always significant. You can also set up Facebook ads for yourself fairly cheaply and that would give you experience and a portfolio. 
I work as a Digital Marketer at a digital agency in Perth. I managed SEM, SEO and social for a bunch of large government clients, as well as some smaller ones.

The Moz SEO guide is an awesome place to start. But as other posters have mentioned, SEO is something that you have to dive into and get some hands on experience. 

Have you thought about starting your own blog so that you can start trying to rank it on Google for specific search terms? Or, if you know someone who runs a business, offer to perform some ongoing SEO for free (link building, creating blog content, optimising title tags etc.). You'll learn what works and what doesn't and you'll be offering some great value for their website.

I run a digital marketing course with an intensive SEO unit that covers practical skills and strategies that I use to help rank clients websites higher in Google. If you're interested, I can give you a voucher code so you can access it for free to help you out. Just shoot me a PM :)

Wordpress is great for beginners. So much of it can be templated. I would highly recommend picking one or two social media platforms rather than all 3. It's going to be difficult managing all of that and building any one of them to a size that starts getting calls. So maybe start on Facebook and Twitter and maybe run ads on IG through your Facebook if you need to be on all three. 
I would consider scaling back the social media presence. I think the Facebook is an obvious first choice for a social media but ask yourself if the other SM platforms are necessary. I work in Marketing for a financial group and I am always approached by coworkers to set up Instagram to which I reply, “what would we post that will gain traction?”. Perhaps ask yourself that “what could I post that would gain meaningful engagement that could turn into business”. If you can’t answer that, it may not be the place to spend your time or energy. 

That being said best of luck to you! Great first steps! 
Facebook blueprint - for Facebook ads
Between AdWords and that, it will be plenty to get started.

WordPress is also a good spot to get started for a website.
Claim his Google my business listing and other important business listings on Bing, Yelp, etc. Respond to reviews, solicit new ones from happy customers. I agree with the guy about scaling back social media, Facebook is enough and it's pay to play. Adwords will get him more actual customers.
You have done the right things so far. Learn more about SEO and more particularly the local seo process. Understand the competition in your niche and develop a strategy accordingly. Also focus on the socialmedia platforms to increase visibility and optimize it.
Definitely look into Google my business. It provides a lot of help, especially when you are barely starting out. As far as SEO, the most basic thing to do is create citations for the company. There is a lot of sites that allow you to create them for free and helps you rank in google locally. Best of luck! If you need any more detail answer contact me directly. :) 
Wordpress is excellent for beginners.
You should learn and be skilled in keyword research and competition analysis for better success with PPC.
I started using [DashThis](https://dashthis.com) earlier this year and I love it. Very easy to set-up reports and our clients have a place they can see their data up to date all the time. I also like the fact that it can blend data together from different channels, very helpful.

I've tried Google Data Studio, and for one-off applications it's fine, but creating those for multiple clients becomes cumbersome and inefficient.
Take a look at NinjaCat. It isn’t cheap but it is amazingly flexible. 
I think you can use https://ahrefs.com/



For demand reasons, Facebook Ads. 

Facebook ads is a must-have skill for most of digital media positions, so you'll have to master it anyway. 

DCM/DBM are more sofisticated but not suitable in every environment. Great skills to have, though.

Facebook advertising isn't rocket science. Great to know, but won't set your world on fire. Keep a broad range of skills up your sleeve and don't place all your worth in a niche.
Facebook ads all the way. You will have fun split testing, making videos and static photos, and scaling...
Learn both, especially if you are in a media / advisory agency as your role would be to recommend the best tool suited for the client's purpose.
Great idea!
I think it's always good to learn how you can improve your email marketing game! 
https://blog.rocketlevel.com/top-7-emails-every-small-business-should-be-sending
Forgot one! Kissmetrics had an awesome article on the importance of technical SEO

[Kissmetrics - Technical SEO: Why It’s Becoming More Important Than Any Other SEO Tactic](https://blog.kissmetrics.com/technical-seo/)
Hey I miss the daily recaps 
All of that is in the “easy to learn, difficult to master” category. The good news is in one dedicated month you should be able to talk about it convincingly enough to land an entry level job.
Udemy has some great courses on all 3 topics.  I like the ones taught by: 
Daragh Walsh
Isaac Rudansky
Corey Rabazinski 
Diego Davila

If you can wait until a Udemy sale which comes around every few weeks, you can get each course for about $12.
# Totally agree with [mighty\_k\_marketing](https://www.reddit.com/user/mighty_k_marketing)


Adding to that, I say [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com) is one place which helped me to learn in early stage and still, follow Industry leaders\(subscribe\), you will get *out of the box* ideas and deep research knowledge. 

Google have free Digital marketing courses, I think one is [digital garage](https://learndigital.withgoogle.com/digitalgarage/) another one is [Google partner Certification](https://www.google.com/partners/about/). You can also go for [Analytics](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/course/6) training from google. etc...

But main thing to keep in mind while you do DMS is End Customer Centric approach, else after all these effort, you will be posting in social media and spending money in google ads without a clear idea. 

And one month is not a good time line, You can do one month intense study and update every day for the rest of your life. 

Hey Its Digital Marketing, it changes every day. :\-\) 

Posting behalf of  [legenesis](https://www.legenesis.com)
Literally just get google analytics certified and if you are feeling ambitious get Facebook Blue Print certification. You can easily do that in a month and will help you enormously 
Hey, getting certified in Google Adwords can be very helpful and it's free! Also, the company I work for conveniently has this guide for how to use Facebook Ads and talks all about Facebook advertising in general. 
Maybe it can help you: https://blog.rocketlevel.com/how-to-advertise-on-facebook-a-guide-for-small-businesses
It is possible to learn quite a bit and be knowledgeable enough to get an entry-level job, but you'll need to keep practicing and studying long after that month to truly become an expert. 

I've been in marketing for almost 7 years now and I'm still constantly learning about platforms I've used heavily for all these years. Especially as new changes and updates are added. 

Def watch youtube videos, follow marketing websites/podcasts and take the certifications. Just don't rely solely on saying you have certifications, they help, but its more about your knowledge and being able to execute/think creatively over a piece of digital paper saying you know it. 
same situation.. :/
Hugs bro

Both Facebook and Google have certification programs so, knock those out 
There are so many contents on the web for it, from Neil Patel to Moz. You can follow anyone or go to preadr.com and select the interest and you can get the content according to your interest.
Hi Aakrit,

All of us go through that phase. I appreciate you have the guts to admit it and your willingness to rectify that. I am ex employee of Google and I have put up a website for everyone who wants to step forward when it comes to digital marketing.

I have put together a site where you could enrol and get the initial push. DOn't worry this is not an attempt to push any courses down people's throat. It's a free resource to make digital marketing very actionable and practical for everyone.

Just enrol and get FREE access to the sessions here: https://courses.titans.digital

Cheers,

KC


Use Facebook Blueprint too, its helped me a lot. But the real troubles begin with big ad budgets ;) Skill of correct money distributing comes only with experience. 
*"I spent 3.5 years of my life falsely believing I'm a 'digital marketer' when all* **I ever did was copywriting** *and seeing other people do things like FB ads and google ads."*

I. Know. The. Freaking. Feeling!

Not to put copywriting in a bad light.  It is after all the most important Part of a webpage but...

but But BUT!...

Not having **control** over your copy: well, that freaking sucks!

You've gotta have your hands on the actual gears ya know?  Being in control of the full funnel.  Being able to tweak what needs to be tweaked WHEN you want tweak it!

Now we're talking.

Respect for making that realization man.  It's gonna be really tough in the beginning but stick to it and use your copywriting chops with your newfound funnel superpowers (once you get'em) and become a titan!

Best.




In Brazil, a federal bank is using Watson to allow transactions through facebook messenger chatbot.

I haven't found an article in english to share but they made a big announcement for being the first in the world to implement this process.
We use it to delegate processing of large scheduling problems.
Hi,
    I'm a content marketer and have worked with many cannabis businesses like Leafly, The Weed Blog and Precise Cannabis to name a few.

Advertising for cannabis products is not allowed on most sites. so, the only way forward is through content marketing. It's interesting, engaging and most importantly, it's legal.

Please write to me at admin@monkeygoesdigital.com to take this conversation forward.

Thank you
Nobody knows.
Its just one country nd its not forever
The fear is that ISPs will pursue bandwidth throttling for sites that feature video streaming services. Theoretically, there's a fear that you can lose leads if you currently run display or video ads on YouTube and the ISPs slow down users' download rates to push them onto a premium account. However, it could also affect other popular marketing channels depending on whatever speed packages ISPs put together. It's all hypothetical at the moment but I remain confident that whatever happens, short of taking out the entire web, the technology is flexible enough to adjust your digital strategy accordingly. 
OK, some good posts in my absence on free training. Use that to orient yourself and become aware of all the areas you need to be aware of, SEO, SEA, SMM all the acronyms. I also highly suggest some digital marketing Podcasts and books, to learn the vernacular and how people think about marketing, and a general marketing primer as well.

Your journalism might be a help on the content creations site, SEO copywriting, blogs, etc...

If you want a paid gig with some feedback, and a possible future recommendation, let me know. I have a small agency and my intern just left to go out into the world and a freelancer I use to write a few blogs for our smaller clients is on extended medical absence. I prefer to work with people that show initiative and have experience in the world beyond marketing.

would pay peanuts (like $50 per blog post) because the client I have in mind was the guy who sold me my house and I gave him a huge discount on everything from his website and that's basically what he pays us. But it will at least be a live website and some on the job training.

Whether you are or aren't interested in that, I'd advise you to start your own website with blog, maybe something culinary, put on analytics, try and drive traffic with organic or very small paid means, and have a platform to explore some of the concepts you learn from the free sources hands-on.

Good Luck!
You won’t have an issue and don’t need costly training. Use the good free resources. Most colleges really haven’t caught up. I’ve used very little from my marketing degree in actual digital marketing work. Plus with journalism background you can go into the content side quite well.
Yes, work from home is appealing. It is good to have a certification and online courses are worth the investment.

You can learn the basics from YouTube videos https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWN-rPSim-zOSUkxOIg7lIw/videos and online courses at https://cerealentrepreneur.academy

Get some work experience from freelancing sites like upwork. This will help you to apply what you have learnt during the course.

After few projects, you can hire a VA and manage the projects.

Then you can start your own SMMA. Sounds good?


If you can get a hold of a Lynda subscription even for a free period of time that would be good. Also start a website just to prove you can do it and have access to a google analytics account 
Hubspot and saleforce offer free training. Google Ad Academy (I think is the new name for it, they switched last week) offers training and their certifications are free and are sought after.

I have a heavy software development background and just transitioned into digital marketing, I'm still a little bit behind the curve strategy wise but there are a ton of resources out there that you don't have to pay for. You don't have to have a marketing degree to enter the field.
I recently jumped into marketing with no marketing experience and with a Bachelor’s in an unrelated field, Spanish and International Studies. You can use your previous experience to transition to a marketing role in that field, let’s say something culinary related. In my case, I worked in law firms for years doing all sorts of things (litigation, management, etc.), and when a marketing role came up at a law firm, I applied and got it. Your journalism experience will help you stand out, too. Also, sign up for Lynda.com and start taking a bunch of marketing classes. It’s just like $30/month. Those classes show up automatically on your LinkedIn profile. Good luck!
I did this...went to se Asia on a or way ticket not really knowing where I was gonna end up...ended up living in Cambodia for a year and half! It was pretty good and I would recommend it!

That being said...finding a job in your industry out there can be quite challenging and if you do find something then expect a huge pay cut...your best bet is to try get yourself a business going online before hand or some kind of revenue that way
I just got back from a vacation to Thailand and Cambodia. Definitely recommend moving there for a while (unless you have allergies). Agree with u/mjonat and u/marketinghack3r about bringing your own clients or freelance work. Local wages aren't fantastic. I met a bartender who did vacation packages during the day for rich people, then tended bar at night to have fun. He wasn't making bank, but it Chiang Mai or Siem Reap, you don't need to make bank to live quite comfortably. I read that not all apartments or houses have hot water. They just don't use hot water, so make sure you have it if you want it. If you're making bank, though, consider living at a hotel for a few months. Quite a few resorts that can give you great living conditions and reliable WiFi. Best of luck. Keep us posted.

There is a huge difference in pay, but expats definitely get better rates than locals.

Cost of living is significantly lower though, so if you have no plans on going back to where you're from, the money that you'll earn should be more than enough.
I've taken my family to Cambodia, Thailand, Vietnam and Bali whilst working. All fantastic places for a change of pace as you put it. 

For what it's worth, I would recommend Hoi An, Vietnam or Ubud, Bali. The internet is generally not great in either but Ubud does have a popular workspace (Hubud). Hoi An is amazing and has cheaper rents and living. 
Wrote this a while ago for a friend. http://www.thelashcollective.com/help-have-i-been-shadowbanned/
I don't know any unwritten rules. What I do know is GrowthPup (https://growthpup.com/) is a great tool for building your following by as many as 2,000 followers a month. My engagement went up - I didn't see any negative feedback and didn't get penalized in any way. 
* Liking too many photos in too short of time 
* Commenting the same comment too many times

tagging people in your photo that clearly aren't in there
tagging people in your photo that clearly aren't in there
be narcissistic 
So you say Google Fred 'punishes' low quality (spam, clickbate) websites? If this encourages more high value website content than this is a positive development right? 
Split test those 2 audiences? You have a variable subset & the control group. Test the hypothesis & the field.
Cast a generic net and then you can breakdown your performance data by age and gender after. Also it sounds like you shoukd just start with a lookalike audience 
Conversion optimization is extremely powerful and scalable.

Get good at optimizing websites/landing pages in a certain niche, build a good portfolio of proven results, and build a reputation.

The more money you can help a business make, the more they'd be willing to pay you. Exercise this.
Data Analysis is a big one. Many things will change when it comes to CRO over the next few years as the digital ad world changes. Same with conversion optimization. We can't really expect folks to keep filling out forms for the next 10 years. That process is going to change so much.

Being able to gain insight from disparate data sources and model that data efficiently is super important now and will be super important in 5 years. It allows you to work with many different kinds of software and bring real value quickly. 
I suggest you learn influencer marketing best practices.  As a strategy, many are looking to get into it as it's a great way to get in front of ideal consumers. It's also a good way to help a business generate leads and sales.
[deleted]
Check out Qlik
Cyfe can do this and it's very cheap. 
Hootsuite 
Google Analytics 
LinkedIn Analytics 
Mailchimp 

Boomerang, Hiver,  SendPulse, Piktochart, Apester, Hootsuite, tweetreach, wistia & Google Analytics
Google Analytics, OpenSite Explorer, Majestic, BuzzStream, Canva, Sumo - the list goes on and on. I dont mind paying for tools either
HubSpot's [blog](blog.hubspot.com)  has a lot of great content.
I have found them to have great blog and social post on many digital marketing topics

https://www.gettingtogreen.com/category/g2g-blog/
You should try:
http://searchengineland.com - SEO blog
http://www.thedrum.com/ - news rather than tips
https://econsultancy.com/ - great SEO & digital resource
https://moz.com/blog - SEO software blog
http://www.copyblogger.com/ - SEO software blog
https://yoast.com/seo-blog/ -  can be good for SEO tips
http://www.toprankblog.com/ - SEO blog
http://www.freshegg.co.uk/blog/ - SEO agency blog
https://www.bruceclay.com/blog/ - SEO agency blog
https://www.branded3.com/blog/ - SEO agency blog
http://www.redalien.co.uk/blog/ - SEO agency blog
https://www.koozai.com/blog/ - SEO agency blog
https://www.seroundtable.com/ - SEO news
http://www.seobythesea.com/ - SEO blog

Absolutely not. Do the (free) online certifications for Adwords, Bing and Hubspot. There are add-ons that mean you can get actual certification for these. But college for digital marketing would be a waste of time. You'd be far better off getting an internship in a digital marketing company. Or better yet, a digital marketing start-up. They won't be looking for anyone with any sort of technical background - just somebody who is willing to do whatever needs to be done to get a job.
Market motive training used to be pretty good - University of San Francisco Online also has a digital marketing program online
To work for someone else, definitely.  But there are so many online courses that are not offered through an actual online university from actual real marketers who are making real waves in the industry.  Digital Marketing is forever changing. Every few months.  Thats why digital marketing is so heavily undervalued. Guys who 've placed ads in dying formats like Newspaper and TV for the last 40 years typically have no idea how to effectively create ads for Facebook that work.  
Agree with Paul. If you have zeal to be a digital marketer, I don't think there is any hidden techniques a course can teach you which is not already available online.
Here's what I like to do. It's sort of based in the inbound methodology. If you don't know what that is I suggest you look it up. 

Who are you writing to?

1. Define a target audience
2. Develop a user persona
3. Discover his/her pain points or do some keyword research and social listening.

Where will you connect with them?

1. Where do they hang out online?
2. What are they searching for?
3. Why are they there? (Entertainment, information etc.)

What content will you publish?

Based on the above, you'll know who you're writing to and what they want when they're hanging out online.

You've set yourself up to have the best chance at catching their attention. All that's left is to publish content.

Create content that solves a problem for the persona you've developed. Use the keywords you researched, and position your content in a manner that's relevant to the platform you're publishing on, with the voice you know they'll respond to.

For example:

Say we sell kitchen knives. I would define my target audience as middle aged women who might be stay at home mothers that enjoys cooking.

I could create a user persona based on this knowledge with a few assumptions based in experience and intensive research:

Mary is a 38 year old mother with 2 kids, a boy and girl who both go to school. Mary's day starts at 6am when she has to ready the kids and prepare breakfast for the family, before taking them to school. After dropping them off, she comes home to do some chores and then sits on the sofa to watch some tv while browsing Facebook and having a think about what to cook for dinner before she makes a trip to the grocery store. Deciding what to make for dinner is one of her pain points as her husband and children like different things, and they can never agree on what to eat. 

So now we know a fair bit about our target audience. It's time to think about what they'll engage with.

It may be effective to provide a free ebook download with the title "Be a Super Mom - 10 recipes your whole family is guaranteed to love". We could easily write this and send it to her email, upon having her fill out a form. We could create a post for it on Facebook and target it at our audience at the times we know she's online. 

Maybe we only add recipes in the ebook that require lots of chopping and cutting of ingredients. Then we could send a follow up email a week later, which targets a pain point that she didn't know she had. "The new knife co knife that'll cut your cooking time in half". 

She clicks the CTA and visits a sales page which is also optimized with high converting content. She buys a knife, thus ending the buyer cycle.

In this specific example there were 6 pieces of content; the Facebook post, the landing page with a form, the ebook, the email that delivers the ebook, the follow up email with the knife offer, and the sales page. Each of these items must be written for that user persona and optimized to push the visitor to the next stage in the funnel.

This is content management and, in my mind at least, this is the best strategy for content marketing. 


Content Marketing plays a formidable role in a creating of a rock-strong and impressive startup marketing strategy. It is not only affordable but if effectively utilized, can help you reach both primary and secondary target audience including your B2B companies and everyday consumers.

There are many ways to make effective content marketing strategies:

1. Understand you niche and create a content what your audience need.

2. Add visuals to the content. Users look for a content that are easy to go through. Infographics, videos, graphs will attract your users more.

3. Add subheadings to your content. Subheadings will break your content into module and will make it more understandable to users.

4. Create a content in step wise procedure. If the content is in flow, it will help users more to read further without any confusion.Under the Title, begin your content with how it will help your customers. It will generate an interest.

5. Do not forget to give call to action in between as well as at the end of the content. If you miss the call to action you will miss the lead generation.

6. Add proper interlinks, if customers want to go in detail. Sentences should be short and precise and content should be broken into small paragraphs.
Hey Jasper!
Interesting idea, I love the fact that you're marketing as not 'normal' clothing :D
I can also see that you're based in Amsterdam, so am I right to assume that English isn't your mother tongue? I ask, because there a few, very little grammatical errors.  Like your category, 'clothings'. One piece of clothing, two pieces of clothing.  The world 'clothings' doesn't exist, unless you abbreviate 'clothing is'.

Not trying to stir the pot, just trying to help ;) I'm a native speaker based in your area, shoot me a DM if you'd like to know more!
Never taken that course but I would like to hear from someone who has!
I think there's a trend in marketing automation to enable tighter alignment between sales and marketing.  For example, Salesforce acquiring Pardot.  Whether it's happening and at what rate is probably highly dependent on a lot of variables.  

I'm in B2B IT and Telecom and sales/channel alignment is a growing trend but on the ground the actual implementation and adoption of these practices is really still in its infancy.  Our industry is heavily dependent on a channel sales model and there's an entire industry growing around software that brings marketing together with channel, e.g., Zift Solutions, MindMatrix.  

My industry has, in the past decade, taken a consultative sales approach but a huge portion of the research stage of the buyers journey is happening online before the lead even gets to a sales rep, where those buyers used to rely heavily on the sales reps for information.  This makes it that much more important for companies to have a solid inbound strategy that gets top-of-funnel content in front of the buyers early in the process, and to give reps visibility into the journey that buyer took before they got to the rep, because where they once had the chance to probe and uncover pain points and position their solution, they're now having a very different conversation where the buyer is educated by the time they engage. 

So, I think think sales and marketing are becoming more aligned, and I think that's the role inbound has in driving that behavior, and I think marketing automation is the key to the execution of that alignment. 
>My industry has, in the past decade, taken a consultative sales approach but a huge portion of the research stage of the buyers journey is happening online before the lead even gets to a sales rep, where those buyers used to rely heavily on the sales reps for information. This makes it that much more important for companies to have a solid inbound strategy that gets top-of-funnel content in front of the buyers early in the process, and to give reps visibility into the journey that buyer took before they got to the rep, because where they once had the chance to probe and uncover pain points and position their solution, they're now having a very different conversation where the buyer is educated by the time they engage.

Completely agree with your point. I consider that especially when the lead generation process is initiated online, a profound collaboration between marketing and sales reps is necessary in order to align the buyer`s journey stages properly and conduce prospects adequately along the sales funnel. We developed a tool that can be really useful in this case, you might want to take a look if you have some spare time. It is called Beamium (www.beamium.com) and it is a solution to create online presentations which capture high-quality leads based on diverse call to actions integrated in the presentation and also provide relevant analytics. In this way the marketing team captures the interest of prospects with the diverse product/service presentations and comes back to the sales reps with the high-quality leads they have captured. We are on our first steps, but I think is a good start to better align both activities in SMBs.    

>So, I think think sales and marketing are becoming more aligned, and I think that's the role inbound has in driving that behavior, and I think marketing automation is the key to the execution of that alignment.

Definitively agree on that. Our tool also looks to automate the inbound process of lead generation in a way. 

What are your views for the future? Do you consider that there will be a merger between both marketing and sales tasks? E.g. at start-ups nowadays it is common to see positions such as Head of Business Development, which actually coordinate both activities. 

Thanks!
Great article 
Great article but you left out SEOMoz!
There are no shortcuts to conversion. The simplest way is to remove the decimals and divide by the corresponding power of 10. That is 3.33 = 333/100 or .75 = 75/100 = 3/4... This is fairly basic and I don't see how they can make this harder.
I am not sure what the agency has in mind. Which position are they hiring for? DM
Maybe they just want to make sure you're not a complete idiot?
Well, what exactly are you about? What is your blog supposed to represent? The niche would narrow it down a bit. Affiliate Marketing is a great way..but it's hard to say without knowing anything about your blog. 
thanks for sharing this
great post shyer 
I love being part of the content creation process. Finding creative ways to share ideas is really cool. I want endless resources so I could do insane things
I am working in the field of digital marketing, specially SEO field and I love it :D
I love everything about digital marketing.
I am just starting out on the wonderful journey that is digital marketing...  The more I discover and learn the more exciting things get! Any quality advice or tutorials welcome BTW.
It's been a really cool journey which has ended up with me and a few mates running a small home digital agency which has been very fun. 
Gotta say what I love about it is everyday is a new day! Digital marketing is always changing and it's interesting to see how consumers respond to ads.
I didnt really choose my career path. I fell into a role that also included a small amount of social management. With time, It just became so interesting, understanding customer psychology and finding new ways to communicate. For me Social is the right amount of creative and the right amount of technical. I honestly feel like this is what i am supposed to be doing. 
I love it. 
yes, i love, eat and breathe digital marketing.
Google Garage. Google Partners Certificates. Learn to use Facebook ads.
neil patel & Ryan deiss
I have marketed apps for B2C and B2B in my past and am not sure if you're following any process at this point. I'll see if I can break down my day to day without knowing specific knowledge of your target demographic, preferred channels, or strategies that you have already noticed worked for you. 

Before going further, I'd like to clarify one piece of knowledge that was shared with me very early on about digital marketing: Typical digital marketers implement marketing tactics hoping that they work or "sticks". Great Digital Marketers, on the other hand, follow a process founded on data that either proves or disproves a marketing strategy. This is how I structured my day to day and here's how it would usually play out. 

The spray and pray methodology doesn't work in digital and if you're still doing that in your company, it needs to stop. Instead, I approached every single marketing strategy with a systematic and scientific methodology that helped me increase my ROI and save some serious time & money from bad campaigns. 

By definition, the scientific method provides a systematic way for you to solve a question by making observations and continuously experiment. The entire concept focuses on repeat experimentation in order to understand variables to ultimately lead to a predictable outcome. 

You don't need to have an engineering or scientific degree to do this. With enough practice, you can follow this simple framework and become a great digital marketer with enough practice. By applying the digital marketing scientific method, you can end up predicting which marketing tactics will be most effective by running small tests to gather data. 

Once you have that information, you can make tweaks to your experiments and improve your marketing results. Here's a summary of how I approached the marketing campaigns for my company, Factivate:

1) Start compiling all of your marketing problems/ideas you can think of (or read) into your spreadsheet for digital marketing. In here, outline how long it will take to execute (input time) and how long it can take you to get accurate data readings from an experiment (output time). We would spend every morning about 10-20 minutes here. 

2) Prioritize your marketing strategies based on how they fit with your goals. Then score them based on the probability of success, resources required, and impact. This would take us about 10 minutes.

3) Once you've identified the experiment, think of how you will measure all of your experiment KPIs based on your objective. Make sure you state your hypothesis and all of your KPIs serve to either prove or disprove your hypothesis. A good framework for this is the AARRR Pirate metrics framework on a per experiment basis. Pay particularly close attention to all of the variables that will affect your experiment and make sure you have automated the reporting correctly. In our company, this depended on the strategy we picked and we ended up building quite a few templates for KPIs that we could use as a basis. If you would like help here, shoot me a message. 

4) After you've connected your spreadsheet to automatically update (and pull data from the third party source, i.e. Twitter), add triggers to your top KPIs in order to be alerted whenever a specific KPI changes beyond a particular parameter that could either tell you to stop or accelerate a particular experiment. This took us literally seconds to implement per KPI as a spreadsheet formula. Some of these included: 

Send an email when Conversions > 100 for each campaign / channel                
Send an email when re-tweets > 250
Send an email when bounce rates >50% for a landing page
Alert me when CPC = $20.00

5) Run your experiment(s). You should be able to validate your assumptions based on the 80/20 marketing experiment. Do this by breaking down your goal into week-to-week growth targets so that you can measure your progress.

6) Create your experiment report by documenting how you will be executing the marketing strategy. These will vary depending on your hypothesis, channel, strategy. We have these reports done automatically so it doesn't take us any time.

7) Monitor and analyze your results consistently. If you can, have the spreadsheet open in a screen in the office 24x7 so that you (or someone in your team) can always look at it. To analyze your results, simply ask yourself why the experiment worked (or didn't work). Identify the key variables that led to the success/failure so that you can make tweaks. 

8. If the experiment was a success, apply your findings, and scale the experiment in iterative steps. Continue to focus on the marketing channel until it's not as successful. 

9. Rinse and Repeat again:)

There are thousands of marketing documents and white papers that you can use as inspiration and not as a copy/paste playbook for your app/business (including this comment). I do all of this using our Factivate spreadsheet because it can be adopted and customized by almost everybody although you can use thousands of other tools. The main point here is that you you are using a systematic/scientific approach and you will instantly be on your way to become a great marketer and prevent burnout from wasted time/effort on the wrong campaigns. 

Cheers!
Maybe if you give a little bit more of background it will be easier to help. Every business has its needs. First think of which are the objectives. Try to think what are the specific needs beyond downloads. Is your app known? Is there a community listening your marketing message? Is there a website? Do I need traffic?. Once you know your objective check the solutions available. Adwords, Content Marketing, Social Media, etc. Then with the budget you make an evaluation which one is the most suitable for you. After some time when you have gather data on which is the best performing channel you can get creative. Very important to know is how much are you willing to spend per conversion. If you are not clear on that, check how much is the profit per customer and from this point you know that you cannot spend more than that per conversion. For example: if every customer pay $1 for the app and you earn 20 cents, your marketing budget is less than 20 cents/conversion. I hope it helps. It is a very broad and generic answer but with your brief it is hard to tell more. 
Facebook will integrate Instagram analytics soon which will help. Have you thought about segmenting your audience by hashtag combination demographics? 

Eg. Users that like #latestfashion and #coffeehit more likely to make decisions based on impulse which is great for fashion sales with a time limit. Or #whenstheweekend more likely to be interested in job seeking or holidays. 
Do the web a favor and please fire your web designer. Few people will put in the effort of trying to decipher light text on a light background. I bounced from the page within 4 seconds.  
Legit value add - thanks OP
nice article...
Came across this article the other day and figured I would share. I love how she picks on the bigger companies who even make some pretty crucial mistakes. Let me know what you think!
A breakdown of the podcast would be nice. If you really wanted to share knowledge you wouldn't just be fishing for clicks.
It's totally dependent on your campaign and competition 
Behavior targeting would drive more conversions than interest targeting.  Spending more money targeting the right consumer is much more profitable than increasing clicks and shares (unless that's what you're going for)
[deleted]
Very funny stuff. 
This was really insightful. Thanks!
This is seriously one of the all time great digital marketing videos. 
So you got some music created as a great collection of content. Now you have to think of how you are going to distribute that content. A great way to do this is to talk to other artists and people who listen to that genre of music. Hanging with other artists in the community is huge. They already have followers and if you can establish yourself in that scene, you're golden.

The best way to go about that is to always go in with a soft intro when meeting other artists and to always start small. Maybe message a few local artists that are similar and see if they want to collaborate.

Also, have a vision for your brand and where you want to see things go. You never want to come off as a fan or a fake artist trying to piggy back off someones following.

Audiences are tired of being blasted sales or always being told what to do. Make things organic and find ways to connect with your audience. Engage with your followers and see what they like, don't like and what they do other then listen to your music.

You focused heavy on your content which is an expression of yourself.

Now it's time to start focusing on the audience, who they are and what they like

And remember, you are listening but not listening too hard.

The audience should never totally dictate what your brand does unless that is in your marketing strategy.

=)

Hope that helps! Good luck on your music!
That's a great question, hahaha. Also if anyone has any stock picks (something like amazon in 1999) let me know!
Business Intelligence ( Look up SQL, R, Tableau), Product Marketing, Salesforce...
Account Based Marketing / ABM
Business intelligence and proper sales attribution/data management. It has a barrier to entry and every other type of marketing can benefit from it so I think this is a big one.

Also, within influencer marketing there is live streaming which people are still figuring out. Influencer marketing as a whole is still relatively young- along with podcast advertising. Seeing how this progressing (I personally think there will be a transition to a CPA model). 

Then there are platforms that still will grow and improve: Reddit (?), Pinterest, Amazon paid to name a few
I would say 1:1 personal marketing is becoming more of a trend, but the tools to achieve this are still quite complex so not many digital marketers are skilled in this area.
Facebook messenger bot marketing
Podcasts.
I mean everyone knows content marketing but I feel it fits here
Programmatic
Email marketing/Inbox marketing
IMO, the next biggest Digital Trend of 2019 are:

Data Analysis | Machine Learning | Artificial Intelligence

Jobs concerning computational Challenges, to more importantly, the moral and philosophical ramifications this advanced technology will have; specifically, Societal Ramifications endured from misuse & abuse.
Real Time Marketing Management (RTMM). Very few people know what it is and very few companies can afford it. The ones investing in this will be the ones on top in a few years.
I’ve just started diving into the Zapier integration platform for various purposes. I’ve seen multiple SMS options that will integrate with Facebook Lead Ads on their paid plans. Could be a good place to start looking.
You can do this multiple ways, but the easiest would be in Zapier to integrate your Facebook Lead account, use a new submission as the trigger, and then make the action send a SMS to the define phone number.

&#x200B;

You can also do this using Hubspot or Active Campaign if you potentially use them as your CRM.
Zapier. It's a fucking life saver.
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/ppc] [Google trends keyword research match types?](https://www.reddit.com/r/PPC/comments/bkbbec/google_trends_keyword_research_match_types/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
It is broad match
If you implement Google Tag Manager on your site, you can implement a rule to track the "apply now" button clicks.   You can then implement the conversion pixel of the DSP/Adwords (wherever you are getting the traffic) to fire when that button is clicked as a result of your media.
Often times there are 3rd party tracking pixels that you can work with the companies to access information through. You'd need to do a data sharing agreement with everyone involved, but on certain industries, this is pretty standard. I've done a bunch of these, if you PM me, I can try to help.
We had this come up recently. Client runs a local business improvement district. 

Normally, we always say no to this kind of request. 

However, this client has been working with our company for 10+ years and referred many qualified leads over that time, so we said yes. They pay a monthly retainer for ~4 hours of my time. After a basic training session or two, I audit their campaigns before they go live and offer suggestions. 

This client has always been great to work with, and it has been a great arrangement so far. They insist they are a 3/10 on the tech savvy scale but are in fact 7/10. I could see this arrangement being an absolute nightmare in many other situations. 

Hope that helps!
Hmm. If it’s not your core business, don’t do it, refer them a trainer. But if you want to do it... you could check out some other FB courses or Blueprint and put together your own course materials. 

Then you’ll know how long it will take. And you might have another service you can sell afterwards :-)
Ask to be paid by the hour. Why not? If not you then they'll pay someone else to teach them.
I do a variation of this with certain clients. I work with several law firms, and some of the solo or small firms have more time than budget available. I charge for account setup and include a list of weekly and monthly tasks. I also offer 2 hours per month to check on the account and provide suggestions or make changes in the account. This works for the firm, as the save money while generating leads and I gain their trust while displaying my expertise. Then when the client gets too busy and gets solid ROI they have me take over the account. This is good for both pof us. They can dip their toes in, learn and understand the strategy of Google Ads and end up being a more informed and better client to work with. Both sides win. 

But I also filter out clients that I feel I won't get along with, so I don't work with everyone who wants to do this type of arrangement.

Edit: word
A class I took recently covered this. They mentioned video taping some of your lessons or just saving material so you can use it in the suture. They also said that even if it’s less work, you should be charging them significantly more. Because you’re passing on your years of experience. Which probably includes expensive mistakes. Years of stress and trial and error. Jobs that paid little. Classes or other learning materials. Etc. and they are expecting to just get all of that.
Moz/semrush will give you an idea of as copy and keyword they are bidding on and a few estimates.  Assuming they are big.  Maybe start there if they definitely won't give you viewing access.
I can tell you as someone who hires PPC people that when I ask those sorts of questions, I'm not necessarily looking for an answer to the question. Instead, I'm looking to understand how the person goes about performing the research to answer the question. 

Basically, what  I'm looking for when I ask those questions is 'does this person know enough to figure out how to answer the question correctly'. Obviously bonus points if you can actually answer the question effectively too.
You can be added as a viewer on their account without them giving you the user/password
If they won't give you access to the Google Ads account and all you want to do is review their keyword selection, get the client to export a list of their keywords including match types and any other metrics you need.

They can do this by simply going to Google Ads > Keywords > Download.

If you want to review their adverts, ad extensions or any other assets without Google Ads access, they can do the exact same thing.

Go to Google Ads > Ads & extensions > Remove all columns so there is no data > Download.
The best you can do in that situation is use a tool like SEMrush to see what keywords their ads show for check their ads/landing pages.
They clearly have no idea how google ads works.
I am exactly the same. I hate not being able to see the full picture of the company. Anytime this happens I always have to go back and google to go to the main page. Annoys the living shit out of me.
Just remember, you, a person who knows what he's doing, are just like 5% of the total people who clicks ads.

&#x200B;

I actually believe that less options means less time to think. But there are tons of ways to apply this idea to a website. So boldly suggesting "removing menu buttons" might not work for most of the web sites. 

&#x200B;

I suggest you to track your page views with tools like hot jar, and modify places where they leave.
Sounds like a juvenile objection. Do you have data to show adding main site navigation to the landing page improves campaign ROI? If no, you have no argument. In some cases you could be correct in your assumption, but right now you are just using a personal anecdote and assuming that based on that you know how to properly spend the clients money while people who have more experience than you are telling you to do it the way the data shows.
Yes. You are. If you are looking for pricing, while the consultation is free, it means the landing page is not done well. The visitor is suppose to feel that they have nothing to lose taking up the free consultation while the consultation would be able to solve their problem.
Good optimized website + google ads and retargetting.

Then instagram + influencers.

Twitter to create a brand

Fb has too much noise to stand out. I would be wary of spending too much on it. Just be active and focus on oragic growth there.

Also, drip marketing for better user experience.
Fb+Ig ads combined with influencers
Considering your budget and bussiness type you should follow product based advertisement policy at the beggining. It is relatively cheap and short-term act. Facebook, Instagram and google ads are the best choice for that. Before publishing ads be sure that your website is mobile optimized since most of potential users of yours will be connected through mobile devices. Afterwards when you have more budget and renown you should develop SEO.
Can I be brutally honest? 

Don't spend your money yet. It's not there. At least online. Your products are the same as everyone else's, from what I could find on your website. But that's totally fine. Looks like you're trying to create a lifestyle brand, not a product line. $800 isn't enough to do that, though. You need some organic work.

Work with people on Instagram, give them product and have them post about it. Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, etc. All the same. Find people who have the audience that you want to target and work with them. 

Your website also needs a lot of work to make this happen. Took some digging to find your purpose. And there's not a ton of text on the homepage. There are some broken links, no blog/community that I could see, and not a ton in the way of people promoting your lifestyle in your brand. This might be another area to spend some coin - get a photographer to do a lifestyle shoot for you. 

Hope this isn't discouraging! I think you have the start to a solid website going. Some fine tuning and you'll be humming along in no time. Feel free to DM if you want!
That’s a great idea thank you. Do you suggest maybe messaging specific people that follow us on social media as well? If so what might be a good type of thing for the message regard?
The two best way is to just keep your money and send your products to instagram influencers for immediate results and work on SEO for your website for long run.

I do these things for startups all the time. Let me know if you need help with anything.
1. You need to run client ads through their own business FB page with their attached payment method. Then they'll make you an Admin so that you can create and run campaigns.
2. Why would you run ads for a company, that is attached to your personal or business account? Each company HAS to have its own business page so that you can run ads through these pages. Ads are shown with the business attached. It would make no sense to promote a product, with the ad being shown through your facebook page.
3. I would do A LOT more testing and research before you sign any clients that you are going to be running ads for. If you are not an expert, or very informed, you will have unhappy clients. Unhappy clients lead to bad reviews. Bad reviews lead to no business. No business leads to you working a shitty job that you hate.
1. Get yourself signed up for a free Facebook Business Manager Account using the name of your business (business.facebook.com)
2. Add your employee who will be managing the ads to this account, and give them an appropriate level of access for their role.
3. Add all the pages you will be managing/running ads for to business manager and give said employee access. If you're not already an admin on these pages, you can request access through business manager. It's very professional since the access request will show up as being from your business.
4. Add the client Ad Accounts for the aforementioned pages to business manager. This is the same as above. If you already have access to it, you can just add it right in. If not, you can request access to the ad account using the ad account ID. Client will need to approve these kinds of requests.
5. If the client doesn't have an ad account yet, walk them through setting one up, then request access to it. You will only have a certain number of ad accounts you can create from within business manager on behalf of clients, so its good to have them do this themselves so you don't max out.
6. Always run ads on a client ad account, never on your business account. Allowing your clients to understand how much of their money is going to ad spend and how much of it is going to management fees is a positive sign of accountability and transparency for your business. Scammy businesses who try to skim money off the top of client ad spend do it the other way.
7. IMPORTANT: Set up auto-delivered reports of campaign stats to be delivered to you at regular intervals. If a client pulls the plug (only real downside of organizing everything this way is that the client usually still has full control and authority over everything) you will lose access to historical data - no good if you're trying to prove the value of the service you're providing and need to reference stats.

With business manager you can work in one single user interface, and manage all of your various assets - Facebook pages, ad accounts, audience insights, audience builders, payment methods, etc. That's what it was built for. You can also grant access to employees (and revoke it if need be) and provided different levels of access for different people. There's no reason not to use it. Like I said, it was built for that.

Good luck!

&#x200B;

Edited because typos.
When you set up a campaign the first few times you are going to have a make a bunch of decisions you really didn’t think about before and might not understand. 

Write all of those down. Write out your rationale for your choices the first couple of times. Look at reporting that addresses those choices. Write down what you learned and what you should do next time. 

Truth is you’re going to have a lot of trial and error—try to maximize what you learn from each trial.
Not to hijack this thread but any advice on how to run A/B tests on FB?

Before I created my A/B tests on Facebook, I used Optimizely's sample size calculator and found I needed a sample size of 70,000 per variation to reach 95% statistical significance. While I was setting up my campaigns, Facebook said the potential reach will be 430,000 so I thought I was safe.

However, my campaign is about to end and I only reached <20,000 per variation (which is well below the sample size needed to reach stat sig).

What am I doing wrong & how could I avoid this next time? Thanks in advance for your help.
Have you ever run any ads from your personal ad account outside of business manager? If you created an ad account for your business then you still have a separate personal ad account that came with your personal Facebook account that might have a small balance riding on it that you forgot, or that you just unintentionally billed to that ad account when setting up a campaign at some point.

Also, rather than trying to boost posts from inside the Instagram app, you could just create a new ad campaign with the Engagement goal, then when you’re creating your new ads for the campaign, choose the option to use an existing post. You’ll get a pop-up with all of the posts that you can promote. 

Look for the Instagram tab in that pop-up. If you can’t select it, then make sure the Instagram account you connected to your FB Business Manager is selected. The option is very close to the button you click to use an existing post as an ad.

Once you’re in the Instagram tab, choose a post to use in your ad, then repeat.

This way you can create one shared budget that all of your promoted Instagram posts, and the posts that perform best will get the majority of your budget. 

If you want to spread budget out evenly then just create separate ad groups or campaigns for each post you want to promote.
Qlutch seems useful for non-marketing professionals or for people without much marketing experience to build plans, but paying for things you can easily google and find advice on for free probably isn't a great investment. That said, I don't have direct experience with it, so others may have found success with it.
I'm putting one together on Piktochart right now. Free online software and pretty malleable for a free service. Strongly recommend. Really good if you want to use info-graphics heavily in your plan and have it be visually interesting.
Google Analytics gives courses on how to use it for casual/advanced use
I am a Google Certified Partner. If you have any questions about google ads just send a message. I can send you google online courses I think these are free of charge.
The google Certs are good to get for your resume but in terms of learning they’re not the best imo. There’s a channel I found the other day on YouTube that was really good called Surfside PPC I think? And there’s a bunch of other good channels as well!
As far as i've known an experienced, as long as you (the customer) have your phone connected to google AND your GPS is on, google just automatically asks you to review places he thinks you've been to based on GPS coordinates. 

You do need to have a gmb set up and running ofc.
Have you left a review in the past? Google will use that previous experience to get you to leave more reviews. It will also take into account the amount of time spent at a location to then determine whether you stayed there long enough to actually use the business.
Google does that automatically, I seems to happen more for a reviewer with a lot of reviews marked as helpful. I wish there was a way to reach out to "helpful" reviewers and invite to the location, but I don't think Google shares that data. Someone smart might be able to scrape that info from r/LocalGuides. "Please review us on Google" signage could get the ball rolling, raffles for review, etc...
If you're an SEO professional offering SEO services, you need to be using the paid tools, in general. There's a reason they cost money. I don't really use any free tools, except gtmetrix or builtwith.com
Look on a site called "siftery'
I have a cracked version of the screaming frog
Ubersuggest by Neil Patel, they just added a bunch of new features.
Depending on how large your agency is, make sure their manager is mentoring them, having regular check-ins with them, and giving feedback on their work. Also give them a "buddy" who isn't their manager/ideally outside of their direct department/team who they grab coffee with regularly. This allows the interns to have a more informal relationship with someone who can answer questions they might be too embarrassed to ask their manager. I'm an intern-turned full time employee at an agency, so feel free PM me if you have any questions! Happy to talk.
I urge you to pay your interns. If not hourly, a stipend. And if not a stipend, you should cover any/all expenses for commuting. Also if you don't pay them, you need to offer it for-credit or else it's illegal.
Show them your case studies. 
Get certified in Google Analytics and Adwords. My interviewer was impressed that I was certified in one of those. You can also work with a recruiter to help you get a job. I'm in the same boat as you, all my experience in marketing has been in social media and I'm trying to branch out to other areas of marketing.
Learn sales. 
I think brand style and voice, and being consistent are critical, but I don’t know that illustration vs photo is generally more or less effective. Illustrations and animations are certainly popular these days for sure. 

I’m so sick of seeing everyone reuse the same stock photos for similar pieces, and any time you can do your own pictures, even if not as professional as “real” stock, your photos will always represent your brand best. 

I would not generally recommend mixing visual styles and metaphors though. Get your brand style figured out and run with it. 
My name is Chirag Jain, I am 18yrs young from "Indore" city based in India. I'm an Enthusiast Digital Marketer and i've worked for more then 4 companies as a Digital Marketer ( i.e: WWF, UN, Daly College, ASASS ). I would like to work from Remote or On-site . I am open to work for free or whatever salary is provided
Hi, I'm a graphic designer with 4 years' experience working with businesses and personal brands. Between liaising with clients, working on projects, and life commitments, I find myself not having as much time as I would like to reach out to new clients.

As such, I'm looking for someone who either has business contacts or possess good marketing skills to promote my services to potential clients. *Please note that this isn't a job with a fixed rate; rather, we will share the payment after a project is completed.*

If you're interested or would like to learn more, do drop me a message. Thanks and I hope to hear from you soon.
[https://www.reddit.com/user/saad\_abbasi/comments/bjr0jw/digital\_marketing\_ventures/?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x](https://www.reddit.com/user/saad_abbasi/comments/bjr0jw/digital_marketing_ventures/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)
Dont list it as a gap... you WERE working. List each company or website name. List the results on that just like a regular job.
Which city are you in? 
Agree with /u/j03c0nn01, fill in the gap with a position of doing your own thing and talk about it as a time for you to discover whether you want to go out on your own or not, and then you can conclude with finding that you missed working with a larger team, etc. and so are returning.

Usually best practice not to tell employers about personal decisions that affect your professional experience unless it's for the positive - it's not their business to know about.
I love this conversation. I’m a certified social media manager and I’m actively pursuing SEO training through OMG machines. I’m interested in your journey and interviewing you. If that’s ok with you, let’s connect
Lived in Melbourne for a while.... doing PPC for Telstra. Maybe see if they are hiring for their offices in CBD. Otherwise, getting a job is about going out and meeting people, networking and finding out about jobs that way. Recruiters are usually the last place I have gone to get a job.
In Salesforce, we use specific Inquiry Source, Inquiry Source Detail, and then also use Campaigns. We tend to get pretty specific with them and then group them at high level by Referral Source. And that would be things like Internet, Word of Mouth, Outreach, etc. 
We just did a massive lead source mapping exercise for our new lightning instance not sure what's the best way to share add me on Linkedin? pm me
 Employment & Recruiting Marketing

Influencer Marketing

 PPC Management

 Personalized Web Content

 Infographics & Motion Graphics

 Voice Search Content Optimization

 Conversion Rate Optimization

 Page Speed Optimization

 508 Compliance Design

 Online Review Management

 Content Marketing Services

&#x200B;
Add Brand Marketing as well
The expert Digital marketing services bring targeted prospects from different online platforms. They are Social media sites, referral websites and other platforms. some important areas are...

Social Media Optimization

Social Media Marketing

PPC Management Services

Facebook Advertising

Linkedin Advertising

Twitter Advertising 

Youtube Advertising

Email Marketing

Content Marketing  

Web Design

App Design
The main thing is correct apostrophe usage. 
for SEO purposes, try YOAST
Yes. Many. 
Plugins are for SEO purposes and SEO is a part of Digital Marketing.. Yoast helps to edit metatitle, metadescription and many other things.. W3 total cache, W3 super cache, Compress JPEG and PNG Images, etc.. There are so many plugins in wordpress, different ones for different tasks. 
Yoast is essential, many others vary but I like WP Fastest Cache and Redirection as well. There are so many plugins, but be careful on some as they can cause your site to slow down, affecting SEO. Usually it's those that have javascript to load
Variety of WordPress plugins are available in the market. Everything has its plugin has its own role. 
The answer depends. What are you looking for? Lead generation, abandonment recovery, SEO, A/B testing, affiliate link management... you'll find a lot of them in the WordPress plugin repository.
WordPress SEO by Yoast, SFDC Lead Generation, Broken Link Checker, Google XML Sitemaps many more.
 

1. Describe your organization in as few words as possible.
2. What are the objectives of the Digital Marketing Strategy? Be as specific as possible. e.g. instead of saying ‘Increasing brand awareness’, say ‘Increasing brand awareness amongst the PHP programmers of Rome.’
3. On what parameters would the performance of the Digital Marketing Strategy be measured? e.g. Mailing list subscribers, Facebook fans, revenue, online sales etc.
4. What is the budget and time-scale of the Digital Marketing Strategy?
5. Have all stakeholders agreed to these objectives, parameters, budget, and time-scale?
6. Define the personnel who will be working on implementing the Digital Marketing Strategy. How many man-hours can the organization devote to implementing the Digital Marketing Strategy?
7. What is the current download rate of special publications, eBooks etc. created by the organization?
1. Budget / Timeline allocated for the project to determine the level of work you deliver + time invested.
2. Expectations & objective of the relationship / consulting you will deliver
3. What services are required and why? (Here offer upsells after doing extensive research before meeting client)
4. What their goal for the year is
5. Who their target market is / personnas (to better target ads, work on relevant & relatable copywriting, and to undestand your audience)

&#x200B;

I'd love to hear what others suggest :)

Goodluck mate
Their goals, their marketing plan, their audience, their history (what’s worked and what hasn’t, and why), their budgets and timeframes, their capabilities inhouse, their obstacles

Make sure you’re well researched in how you can help them either bu creating opportunity or saving cost (or both)
This is a bit facetious, so apologies, but I’d say it’s a good thing. Turn them off and out some proper tracking in place instead / smart goals are pretty much useless 99% of the time. 

If you want me to take a look at your site and suggest a goal setup feel free to reply here or DM me 👍🏼 

Edit: no charge / sales follow up - just happy to help. 
Why would you even want to use smart goals? Just use custom goals specific to your company or client's goals.
If the linked account falls below 250 clicks over the past 30 days for the selected view, Smart Goals will be deactivated until the clicks rise again to 500 or more. 
Unless you're completely rebranding (changing name) I'd just keep that account and wipe the page. start fresh with new images or some designs advertising your skills. Although 1000+ followers might be low to some I think it helps you stand out as somewhat reputable, especially if the page looks nice. 
Hi ! If you guys have any other suggestions, i'll be glad to hear more ! \^-\^
I would master a specific digital marketing skill. People who don’t really understand This field thinks that one person call do it all or know it all about digital. Impossible for one person to be able to do all the aspects of this field. 
Most important lesson learned or what you need to learn first? 
[deleted]
Scripting, with a huge emphasis on manipulating databases.

&#x200B;

Its just the most useful thing, foundational knowledge there opens up so many pathways it hurts.
I’d start broad and then get granular. How to build and design a website from scratch, how cookies work from the technical side, for example. Then I would learn about the marketing. I think this would have expedited my understanding of digital marketing and I’d be able to market myself as a complete internet whiz to small businesses. 
Learn Google Analytics and how to read the data. This is SO VITAL in this industry. You can track the strategies you're testing, and where you need to make adjustments. 

Digital Graphics. I'm very skilled at Photoshop, but I wish this was a skill set I started long before I started using it everyday. You'll save so much money creating your own creatives. It's hard to get a "vision" to someone a lot of the time. So if you can create your own creatives, you never have to worry about this.

PPC and SEO. Mostly because the vendors we've used suck, and I feel like I could do it better than them with a little research and testing.
RemindMe! 1 day
Remindme!
Links to past works, articles, email templates etc. You can blur out client specific info.

For SEO I'd provide screenshots and analytic reports. Also testimonials are great
I'm bummed no one else answered because I am wondering the same thing as I'm going to pursue the freelance route. I was thinking of creating a basic website with samples of my work, then I'd be able to just send a link to that/include it on my resume, but was interested to hear what others have done. 
I'm a playlist curator, been looking for some bloggers to write articles for artists promo.

Whats your reach like? 
How do you get paid? 
Got a link to some affiliated blogs or anything?
I'm interested potentially
We do paid advertising. Could be interesting.
I m in
Is this for an agency or an organization? It sounds like organization so I'll tailor response to that:

- Make it personal, know their competitors and understand where their niche is. Shows initiative and you'd be surprised how few take the extra step.
- Look at their program (on site, paid, local, display, etc.) and assess what they're doing right and what they could be doing better. Some places will point blank ask you as a second step to give an assessment like this. If you come prepared with ideas and recommendations, it is often received very well.

If it is an agency, however, my main advice would be:

- Do not be an arrogant dick. What I mean is, be personable and humble. Admit where your knowledge is weak and when you don't know things but express a desire to learn. They don't want you interacting with internal partners or clients talking out of your depth (or ass). It's never bad to say "I don't know, but I'll find out/get in touch with someone on my team better suited to answer this."

Just my two cents. Lots of things to say but if this is entry level and you express some ambition and initiative, your experience or lack thereof won't even come into the equation.

Best of luck and hope you land it!
Create a presentation and include a couple examples of projectscampaigns you have worked on. This is a great way to show how methodical you can be in your approach and in interviews people tend to respond to this visual approach more positively... Imagine how many other people have been interviewed with the same monotonous approach, Yano?

Just make sure to explain what worked well and how you achieved your goals, however, remember to include info about a time you struggled during a project/campaign and how you overcame this. (It's easier said than done but be natural)

+
If you can provide info on there business and say (realistically) how you would like to improve this. I.e. follower count (for Social Media Platforms) impressions, Reach, CTR etc... - for the latter do a quick Google search for the industry average and use that as a benchmark in your explanation. This can show your drive and willingness to perform well... Also try and align it with your own personal enjoyment 
And excitement for the job :)

++
Finally, for an organisation, if you will be working within a larger team try and be personable and be prepared for some off the wall questions. These are to guage how well you will fit into there mould or simply to guage how quick your response time may be... Problem solving and all that...

Good Luck! Drop me a private message with how it turns out :)
Simply have the skills that are on the application and be able to demonstrate them and talk about them. 
There are a couple of things that this could be.

LinkedIn clicks (depending on where in their analytics you are looking) on an ad can be a click to your website, but they also can be clicks on the ad that do not take them off of LinkedIn, such as a reaction.

LinkedIn is a bot-full cesspool, so if you are using Google Analytics it may be removing bots that LinkedIn is not.

If your website loads slow, LinkedIn can register a click, but if the person leaves before your analytics load it can cause this.  

Did you tag your campaign? if not and they are using an app, then it very well could look like direct traffic.  Check this by seeing if your direct traffic is all mobile, and landing on your ad's landing destination. 

While ad clicks and traffic never match up, anything over a 20% variation is worth looking into.
I noticed the same yesterday. 54 clicks on an ad yet analytics show 20 from LinkedIn. 
Maybe LinkedIn count the clicks on the publication and not only the clicks which go to the website
Should be able to link GDS and Facebook with SuperMetrics to auto-populate. 
Facebook has a very robust reporting API. Learn to make calls and pull the data as needed. If you can’t pay for a solution, this is likely your best option. 
Try swydo
Remindme! 5 hours
Grab an agency job mate, you’ll learn a lot and build your network
You may consider getting an apprenticeship, it helps to speed up the development of your learning curve as well as being able to hold off on your own.
Honestly, you're going to find it really difficult to establish yourself as a freelancer without any real world experience. I don't know of anyone who would use a freelancer without it. I'd say you want to build up a few years experience and without experience your best bet is at an agency. Do that for a bit then start to do a bit on the side and gradually try to transition to FT freelance. But you need to be patient because it will take time for people to take you seriously.
I am also looking for a mentor that can help me learn digital marketing.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Honestly, I hate unpaid internships but if you get one at a digital agency of reasonable quality, you will be worth something to them by the end of it and they won’t want to let you go. I recommend starting in PPC because of the fast learning curve, then branch out from there after you’ve conquered the foundational elements.

You can greatly improve your odds of getting a position by getting the certifications from Google in Search & Display. The training is reasonable and if you pair it with the book Advanced Google AdWords by Brad Geddes (get the latest edition), you’ll be a gun in no time.
[removed]
Shoot me a message, I can help you out, bud!
Link juice coming from a quality website is considered as 'Good Quality Link juice' & link juice coming from low authority website/irrelevant website/porn website is considered as 'Bad quality link juice'.

You need to check the quality of website from which your link juice is coming.

I am mentioning 3 top tools for the same (Almost all the industry guys are using this only)

1- You can check domain authority & page authority from MOZ

2- You can check trust flow & citation flow from Majestic

3- You can check domain rating from Ahrefs

&#x200B;

Higher numbers are better.
Generally speaking if it's a relevant site with good domain authority it'll be a quality link.
You can use Moz for Domain Authority and Page Authority.
Im moving into more monthly retainer deals. 
The way I've been told is you charge by project. But you come up with your price by the hourly pay you want or think you're worth. The problem if you charge a client 15 hours to do a project and you do it instead in 10, they think they're over paying because you spent less time. So you're being punished for being better at your job.

  


I'm not sure if this is best way to do it, but it's what I've been told. Instead, calculate your project at how many hours it would take (say $100/hour at 15 hours). So your price is now $1500 for the project instead of $100 an hour.
Monthly retainer 
I might be newer to this than others, but I try to work with what makes the most sense for my clients. 

I always prefer set fee / retainer though, because it gives me the opportunity to work a lot less and make more. 

With hourly there’s always the question of why so much per hour (“wait, did you say $195/hr?”) , or why it took so long, as they thought it would only take <insert-ridiculously-short-period-if-time> even though you told them it was a 15 hour job and you only took 12. 

I’ve made the mistake of underpricing myself dramatically and then regretting it when I lost money. 

Now I turn those clients away, to someone else, or have me coach them on how to do it, where to start, etc. Done that a few times, did 60 min strategy sessions at $95/hr
Another note — I just recently got over the idea that some services are “expensive” — digital marketing services (SEO, Content writing - if high quality, social media ads, PPC) are worth a lot in the market.

Even $300-$400/hr isn’t that crazy if you provide true expert level work.

That will likely end up being done as a retainer though. 

If I’m charging a retainer of $3000/mo, I need to make sure the MOST I’m spending in time on that account is like 30 hours. 

The coach I follow says only 10 - but we’ll see 😂
There is no one way to bill a client. You can do hourly, day or week rates or even monthly. We do retainer aka monthly and then by the project if it's a large job that will span many monthly for a specific ask.
Depends but we’re trying to move away from billing by the hour. It is a bad, bad idea.
Always try and bill by the project and better still, get onto a retainer to complete projects long term.
I.e. - this project will take 6 months to complete and our fee to do that will be $3,000 per month. That sort of thing.
Lots of people here saying they bill by the project. This is something I usually avoid unless the scope is very clear and in a written contract, because otherwise some clients will attempt to turn your agreement into an "all you can eat" buffet. Endless revisions, meetings, changes, etc.

The advantage of Time & Materials is that you will always get paid for the amount you worked, and they won't ever overpay or underpay. It's fair both ways, and you can establish a minimum fee to ensure you always get a certain amount of value regardless of how long it took.

At a very minimum, if you go the route of Project billing then make sure to establish boundaries. For example, instead of "one page for $500" you might say "one new page draft including up to two rounds of revisions for $500" or even "one new page draft for $400 plus $150 per round of revisions." This way you are still putting the cost back on the client if they are inclined to put you through your paces. I think you'll also find with well-structured arrangements like these, even the most indecisive clients will magically become more decisive and interested in closing the loop on any given scope of work.
Project, of course. How can they judge your hourly rate if they aren't around to see it? It's very easy to modify per hour (shitty move but DM firms do it daily). Give them a concrete price, and get to work!
Depends on the requirement of the client. If its just maintenance and report generation i charge by the hour if its a huge project (hundred thousand dollar++) i charge by project. 
I heard many great things about RevLocal. They are pretty big too.
People seems to be going to Assembly and Essence a lot lately 
Top Hat Rank is dope. Any agency that has Arsen Rabinovich AND Jesse McDonald is to good to not at least talk to. I can maybe get you a direct connection to get you in touch with the top people there.
Yep! Set a new Destination goal > Destination Begins With:  shop/checkout/?order-id= 

Verify the goal and you should be all set.
Don’t pay for traffic if the traffic hates the site. Focus on conversion rates as a UX metric. If you have a 1% conversion rate do the math to predict the ROAS. If instead you had a 2% conversion (and potential for upselling or other AOV increases) the math will prove your point. 
UX comes first

I will give you an example:

&#x200B;

Client payed €4000 for a site. Also spend €2000 in ads. 8000clicks after and the CVR ( 6 months) was 0.01%

I decided that i had to create a new site in order for his business not to go under.

Spend $8 on namecheap. Spend some time setting up and cleaning a WordPress theme. Spend €267 on google search ads. 

CVR is \~9% \[after 39 days\].

&#x200B;

So, as i said, UX comes first.

&#x200B;

P.s. Ask me anything \^\^
Do a usertesting.com test and show him how hard of a time the user has trying to buy on the site. 
Honestly this sounds like a communication issue between you two to me. If you haven’t already I would ask why he believes PPC should be prioritized before the UX of the site. That should give you the key to what you need to address in your answer to have a chance at convincing him. Seeking first to understand before being understood will end a lot of disagreements in all sorts of circumstances.

That being said, after hearing out his concerns/arguments, I would try to explain why the order things go is important (focusing on the site first and user experience is more important than scaling it with ads). After listening and acknowledging his point of view, I would then explain. Explain that paid ads works as an multiplier for what already happens, so if you have a baseline crappy user experience on your website that is clunky and hard to navigate, you are throwing money away because the website sucks and it wouldn’t convert well. Maybe show him examples from competitor sites for what you want your landing page to look like or walk him through that by navigating your site from a buyer’s perspective and showing him how where your website could be use work. Basically show him what works and how you would get your website to work better.

But the important thing to realize is that you guys are on the same team, trying to do what’s best for the business/family in your own way. Or maybe none of this applies if it is something else he is hung up about, I don’t know. Only he does and only talking to him will help you find out. These are just some ideas from the outside, good luck with everything.
What is the conversion rate right now?
Where is your current traffic coming from?
What are you selling?

Depending on these factors I can't make a judgement call because either one of you could be right.

The owner of the company I work for has a very much "Just do it" attitude, whereas I like to tick boxes and have a road map. What I've learnt over time is that it's sometimes necessary to go with the flow and return to my tick boxes at a later stage.

If your conversion rate is not too shocking (I.e. Less than 2-3% and your products are sold via Google Shopping fairly easily then I imagine your Father is looking at that channel for fairly instant cash flow - which you can then use for UX improvements. 
it means you need to work on your conversation skills, trying to prove that one should be prioritize more than the other won't do you any good if the other person (don't buy it). a high end honda has way more features than an old porsche but people will still buy the porsche;

&#x200B;

They are both important and need one another to get good results.

You situation is more about making understand and feel which one is the right path
Why can’t you do both at the same time? Start up the campaigns, collect a small sample size, and then make ux changes. Track the numbers and show your father why it’s important to a/b test and improve user experience. 

It sounds like the site is, at the very least, functional. So there’s that and that’s good. Run a ppc campaign for a few days and then begin optimizing and let the data speak for itself. 

Good luck! 
Assuming you know what you're doing the tier two into tier three method is still effective. It's easy to leave a footprint for google to realize you're links are sub-par. The best way to rank is the slow and steady build up of good content on your main site and reach out for guest blogs and even pay for PBNs if you can. Just make sure you are linking (even if it is no-follow) on some other sites to ensure you have some decent link diversity.

TLDR: It still works, but I would recommend going with safer methods. 

If you have any specific questions, just let me know.
If you want to go this way I recommend creating those pages and then let them age for couple of months before you create those backlinks. 
Your submission has been automatically removed. Please contribute to this sub before submitting posts.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/DigitalMarketing) if you have any questions or concerns.*
SEMrush will be your friend to fond valuable keyphrases.
Degrees are nice but hands-on matters more. You can always do some classes at night if you decide in the future you want some university. I only did college, got a job and then did university at night. I'm in Canada, which I know has a slightly different education system then in the UK.
Where I live I would need college to get top mgmt position. 
Hi again, having hired apprentices in related areas (similar in that it's desk-based work in typical functions in corporations), I think there are two answers.  The known and the unknown.

1. The Known

I think you're fine for now as an individual contributor.  We're all pretty used to hiring CVs that don't have a degree on them and only if we're totally overwhelmed with applications or if it's a 50/50 call on experience is it likely that the education will really come into it.

&#x200B;

2. The Unknown

It concerns me that in 5-10 years when you're looking for your first proper managerial role (no longer just a lead or a "senior", now someone who's responsible and accountable for getting shit done), the degree becomes more likely to make a difference.  Equally, if you're young and get designs on big-company director roles, the usual MBA route to them presumably means an undergraduate degree is already under your belt.

&#x200B;

Who knows how the industry and perceptions will change in the next 10 years, but I think that's a risk.
In some companies it doesn’t- they want more skill or experience. In some it does. My boss only hires people with degrees. He thinks if they can get through school they can work hard. His daughter dropped out of college so he’s biased 
Definitely depends on the company.
If you are a beginner in digital marketing then start with creating a website on wordpress and apply what you ve learnt until now. Follow Moz, Search engine Journal, Backlinko and Matthew Barbys website to learn seo. Become master in seo and move on to ppc, facebook and other ads. I prefer referring wordstream.com for ppc and adexpresso website for studying facebook ads.

Dont stop with just seo or ads. The ultimate aim is to grow business. Seo or ads does not grow business. We need to create funnels for the growth of business. Learn and implement marketing funnels by also applying above given strategies. You can refer infusionsoft blogs, or read Russel Brunsens expertsecrets ebook n all. N atlast never stops learning. Keep upto date with the latest trends in digital marketing. 

I hope the doubt is clarified. ☺️
lol, i also want to know that
Pages don’t have their own newsfeeds anymore. You now interact with the newsfeed using your personal account (or whatever Facebook account you’re using to access and manage the business account). 

If you see a post from another company that you want to interact with (sharing, commenting, etc), then there’s now a pull-down tab on the post itself in the controls on the post — right next to the like, comment, and share controls, you’ll see a small version of your profile photo with a downward-facing carat. 

Click on that and you can select the page that you want to interact from. If you manage a lot of pages through a FB business manager like I do, you actually can search for the page here. Does that make sense? 
I use 851 px by 360 px. The viewing dimensions are 851 pixels wide and 315 px tall for desktop, 640 px wide by 360 px tall for mobile so my dimensions cover both views. Make sure your text/graphics are in the center as to not get cut off in either view. 
I personally do 1702pxx630px and the result is awesome. 
and yes facebook drops down the quality when I do 851x315 the result looks bad, to be honest. Also, try to adapt the cover for mobile and desktop by doing a design that matches them both. Another thing, always try and play around with the resolution and everything to get a better idea.
You can increase your domain authority by 5 as below:

**Conduct a link audit:**  

Remember for a great DA ranking, you have to focus on maintaining a healthy link profile. Google loves websites with variety of links. It means you should build links as per Google's guidelines. But prior that do the current link analysis of your website. You can use tools such as SEMrush Backlink Audit, Majestic, Moz's Open Site Explorer, etc. 

**Build high-quality links:**

There are many ways you can opt for this. You can target the sites that have changed their names or stopped offering service. Then check all the sites which are link to the old sites and start building links on them. You can use Quora for your backlink building by answer questions and then giving a helpful URL of your website related to that.

**Create a content that your readers love:**

Understand the area of interest of your readers and create a content accordingly. This will help you gain more visitors on your site and ultimately improve your domain authority.

**Make your SEO strong:**

SEO plays a big role in improving your DA. Check if you are using meta tags correctly as they help Google as well as visitors to find your content. So, focus on your SEO.
Domain Authority is Mainly Depends on DomainAGE and fewer Spam Backlinks. and Also All the backlinks from HIGH DA and PA website with Hight Trust Flow. There is No exact time to increase a domain Authority by any amount of number.
This is the most common question especially asked by digital marketing freshers. First you need to know that increasing domain authority is differ at various level. In other words, it is easy to increase domain authority from 10 to 15. But it is very hard to increase domain authority from 50 to 55. 

In both the cases there is only 5 DA difference between the domain authority. But the value of the DA is very different. In your case you page authority can be increased easily by 5 points you just need to build few quality backlinks on the particular page. 

But on the other hand to increase your domain authority from 30 to 35 you need to built more and more quality backlinks. Thanks hope you get your answer.
I have built a page authority of 31 and domain authority of 23 in just 4 months. Still, a long way to go.  


&#x200B;
I have a number of teams on 3-5 projects at any one time and we use a combo of Asana and Airtable. I also come from an spreadsheet safespace but Airtable has been great. Cheers!
We just started using a tool called Freedcamp. 
It’s got a few different ways of managing tasks/projects, has awesome team/user access management, has a CRM (pretty basic), password manager and most important to me for training purposes, a Wiki. 

You can have a totally different Wiki for each client/asset and another one for your internal processes. For example, I have Wikis for each client which detail posting topics/schedules and generally just client-specific stuff. I also have general onboarding documentation which is global throughout our business. 

The wiki is by far the most powerful feature of you work with VAs and at only about $7/month/user it’s very well priced just for that. 

I haven’t used it too much for tasks yet as I am a Google Calendar whore for project management and I just can’t shake it. I manage deadlines etc. in calendars for each client and then share the calendar events with the responsible staff member. I also do this with all upcoming expenses. I like this system because on a Monday I can show all of the calendars at once, show by week view and see literally everything that’s going on during the week. 

We also have a system of using a green tick (✅) for things that have been dealt with, a play button (▶️) for things that have been claimed and are in progress, a pause button (⏸) for if work has been temporarily suspended and the same staff member will resume shortly, a stop button (⏹) is work has been stopped and handed off by the staff member and a bell (🔔) for manager input. 
At all stages, details are kept in the notes of the event - especially if work has been stopped and handed off. 

I don’t know how scalable my calendar system is but it certainly works. 😛
We use Asana and love it. Once I left basecamp, I never looked back.
If it's a set amount for the month I would still charge for the full month.

&#x200B;

The budget was spent and provided you did your job right, there shouldn't be an issue with invoicing for a full month.

&#x200B;

Your client is probably happy to pay for the full month if the same end goal was achieved like sales or leads.
I think you have the best user name I've seen here in a while
Don't know if there's a marketing term for them but they are basically using the same technique as Bob Dylan in "Subterranean Homesick Blues" which was kind of a milestone in the making of music videos for "pop music". He also included intentional mistakes and puns in the lyrics. Hope this helps a little!
From my experience, most of those networks only provide junk traffic. 
You will get a lot of bot clicks with very little fraud filtering. Make sure you have domain tracking through third party analytics so you can eliminate high click low converting sites.
They do but they are serving a lot of junk traffic
Hey,

&#x200B;

We have a better solution for you. We have Google DV360 platform to promote your brand which is the very best tool in the industry. Do connect with me on mail at [rajasekhar@billiontags.com](mailto:rajasekhar@billiontags.com) or skype at live:raj.billiontags
There are a number of managed ad operations teams that could probably provide you with some better solutions (like mine - NitroPay.com). 
Get the Parter Program for each major platform (Google, Bing, Facebook etc). 
You can get personals badges:
https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/
https://landing.google.com/academyforads/
And join partners https://www.google.com/partners/about/
https://www.facebook.com/business/learn/certification
Seo
Awesome Post! 
It’s all about having good content and distributing that content across channels, social being a part of that.

A good video can go a long way, something that quickly demonstrates your solution in a way that is friendly and to the point. I’d budget for FB and LI, test at a small scale and increase based on results. Make sure you are able to measure results to decide on future budgets.

I’m thinking of medium-intensity actions that will get you measurable results. Social also helps with SEO. Make sure you are linking to your website in your posts.

I don’t know how much traction you will get with static ads, sometimes carousel ads will work well on FB. Especially with more sophisticated leads.

Look it’s going to cost you about $5CPM. You are looking at $1.00 to get a lead on the website. You are looking at conversion rate of 2.5% to 5%. Roughly $35 to $50 (because things go wrong and you constantly optimize) to acquire a customer. That’s pretty standard. 

You test content and make sure you are maintaining upstream performance and if that is working out then you try to fix downstream (website optimization, closing, etc).
In that case I would say it wouldn’t hurt to have a fleshed out Facebook page to add credibility to the paid ads you run. Get good reviews on there, add maybe a dozen posts, build up to a few thousand followers. The big moneymakers are gonna be google ads and Facebook ads and I’d say they should get more focus than spending a ton of effort/time/money on those organic posts. 
There is no right or wrong answer, it really depends on the business. 

I've worked for businesses with amazing organic content potential that regularly attracted thousands of engagements, and I've worked for businesses where there just wasn't a viable organic content strategy to be had. 

You need to "read the room" so to speak, and if your organic content doesn't resonate with your audience then I would pull it back. 
Used Social media with Products Store on facebook ... But Before Setup a Pages with all information and Share of products.. after that Create a Ads for sale .. and Second ads run for likes Then got many more sale ... 

Now days more People on Social media then Create a plan for Social media Both Organic and Paid ... Linkdin is best for B2B .. just Join us group and share helping content and Informational with Links ! ! 
Just a small piece of the puzzle, but with Facebook ads you can target people that are admins of business Facebook pages. Not a bad option for lead gen or gaining followers interested in your service. 

Also what’s your product? I have a lot of Shopify and woocommerce clients I work with on the social media ads side. 
Don't buy followers unless you mean using PPC then yes do that but focus on making high quality content and nurturing leads through engagement.
It is very dependent on the users ability to acquire, the complexity of the purchase, and the purchase cycle for the user.

Some products/services are purchased frequently and do not require loyalty -- therefore, even if the user does not purchase the item this time, next time they are looking they will know their options.

Some products are complex and take time to understand -- like getting a home loan.

Some products are hard to get for certain users -- like a home loan.

Some users aren't as trigger happy as you are and take time to purchase what they need even for what you think are simple purchases.

There are very few one-time, low-value, high-intent items for sale.

Lead nurturing can also happen after purchase to retain usership.
  

I read your post a couple times and it seems like there are a couple questions. And I am sure my response will upset a few purest so I will first way that there are many ways to reach a sale or the bottom of the funnel it isn’t always a straight drop from the top to the bottom. But let me provide some insight into your direct question and examples:

Sale cadence, funnels, flows or whatever the hottest catch phrase should apply to every sized business. Why? The framework of the funnel acts as a guide for the seller to manage the relationship with the buyer and it also helps the buyer through the decision process.

Example #1

Think of the funnel as a highway not all of the traffic enters at the same place. Also funnels aren’t unique. So a customer may start at the top of company A’s funnel but make a purchase at company C’s site simply because it was the lowest cost available when they were ready to buy.

Your example #2

I used to think exactly link you with the concept of providing contact information because you know you would be inundated with emails. However, landing pages which captures a little info or provide you an opportunity to download information is the right way to go for marketers, a visitor will not have the patients to review all of the details in their initial visit so a pdf is perfect. In your example, the visitor would have already done their research and probably would not enter the site through a marketing landing page they would have clicked on a affiliate link or something to get to the company home or eCommerce page. 

In both examples you show a reluctance to provide information. By doing so you are missing a very important opportunity. 

&#x200B;

· First let me say this get yourself a junk type email address so your real email does not bet clogged.

· If the company is high quality they will have a double opt in process and a unsubscribe button in their email to you.

· Providing this basic information allows you to evaluate this organization

o Do they hard sell you?

o Do they respond quickly to your submission?

o Are you provided information that may help you after the sale?

o Are you provided additional discounts that you could take advantage of?

&#x200B;

In closing I would say the proverbial funnel works best for small business because it provided more personalize opportunities that big business can’t provide

&#x200B;

Rick
It totally depends on the product. I don't have a sales funnel as my clients call me, we discuss details and how to proceed.

Many of my clients do have funnels as they are targeting high-level executives that need hand holding through the process. Those execs need to pitch it to the CEO or board of directors and they're comparing three top companies in the industry.

Getting targeted and qualified leads are important as not everyone is qualified.

Compare that to me, and most businesses are qualified. I work with a lot of tech, SaaS and funded startups so my experience with funnel's is limited to what they're doing, other industries may be different.
  

You can’t target only by first name, you email ids which are acquired with their consent. You can create a custom audience with Names, upload a list of names, last name etc., and then target them through ads.
SEO and geo fencing
Is Facebook marketplace available to you? 
I don't work in digital marketing but my dad owns an antique and collectibles shop in Singapore with its own Facebook page at 18K likes.

That said, we don't really follow a schedule of posts but my dad does post pictures of his collection on the page semi-regularly.

What has worked very well for us is an ongoing Facebook ad that links to a Google "Step Inside" view of the shop. We get lots of comments and shares on that as well, which often translates to likes and sometimes visits to the shop.

I'd also be interested to read the advice in this thread!
Figure out who your top 2 or 3 costumer profiles are and then figure out where those profiles spend their time and where they look when they're looking to buy. That's where you want to be.
  

You can put the business on Google Business Listing. Concentrate on the SEO. Write blog post every week using good amount of keywords. Also ask Facebook followers to share what you post. 
I have experienced the same thing with funnels. Using video engagement for retargeting. We are still testing but the results don't look to good right now. Other people experience really great results with this though.

&#x200B;

I am focusing a lot of my energy on list building now and using email as a warm up.
Hello. Killing it with video right now. 

One of the largest months my company's every had

It all has to do with the pixel and the type of ad. Video is amazing for this. 
I'm using short videos and the conversion targeting using the pixel. It gets smarter the more sales you make
Also, I do retargeting but I only use the feed for the video. Retargeting I use multiple still ads and place them everywhere
Mixed results with video too. I've found even with good engagement on videos, retargeting is a bit hit and miss (especially if you use instream ads). But it's also difficult to measure brand awareness metrics of video and people Googling later on. 

But here's my 2c.   


First I'd think about who you're selling to. Is there a particular type of content they'd more likely to engage with? And why? Some audiences just don't respond to video. Other's (Millennials) love video. 

Also if they're not aware of the product, are they aware of the problem it's solving? If they're problem aware, then it's going to be a little bit easier to peak their interest vs if they're not, you're going to need to do a little education. 

Think Problem -> trigger -> solution -> call to action. 

You might not really know without doing a split test (which you can do within Facebook) without overlapping audiences (but same demographic targeting) to test the type of content your audience engages with the most. 

The price point of the product is important as well. Is it an instant buy, or is it something that's going to have to be considered more carefully?

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Yes, he’s legit and you should be able to get enough information from his free section. 
Some dangerous kool-aid in my opinion. 

His books sugarcoat and glamorize the entrepreneurial lifestyle and seriously downplay the risks involved with what he advocates. 

At least when I discovered it about 10 years ago. Wish I had the perspective I do now.
I read the weekly digest email of popular threads on the forum, I have a free account and don’t really hang out there or spend any considerable time on there otherwise.

A lot of the threads are time wasters IMO, but there are some diamonds in there when you look. I have found out about certain tools early and new methods form this forum. There’s some good motivation now and then and it’s healthy to hear of different perspectives on certain subject matters.

There’s for sure a lot of wantrepreneurs and knuckleheads on there who come and go over time in fresh batches. And there’s scams and hustles that entrepreneurs themselves need to be aware of as to not fall victim, which is a plus of the forum that veteran entrepreneurs do not stand for this type of parasitic behavior and bullshitters will often get called out. 

I’ve never used the premium service and thus can’t say if it would provide any ROI to me. However it is always healthy to reverse engineer funnels and in this case I feel the revenue streams MJ DeMarco has created on his forum may offer some value to those who need / desire a private members club.

His first book was a quality read and I know he had success in the limo/private car lead generation business he created and sold multiple times, the second book however Unscripted was rather “ranty” and not really up there with his earlier work.

Good luck
Very legit
Any audit software like lipperhey, seositecheckup or seomator.
  

You can try Neil Patel’s Free SEO analysis tool. Also check SeoSiteCheckup.com.
SEMrush is great 
Hi,

Semrush and Moz blog are good sites.
Moz
Definitely use UTM tags for all campaigns driving traffic to brand.com. Surprised you don't as an agency. FB metrics / analytics is pretty poor in isolation. 

I'm confused though, are you saying the rep told you that conversion attribution stops when the ad-set schedule has concluded? That's incorrect. 

Talk to your FB account manager, not FB Ad Support, they are almost always low level contractors so the level of support is pretty basic.
Oh wtf? 
Treat them the way you treat your smaller clients. They're no different, they just have more money (hopefully!) :)

Also prepare and bring 3 backups of everything. Literally plan for your laptop to not work at all. Practice your pitch and everything without a laptop just in case - seriously. If your laptop doesn't work they'll be super impressed you did it without. Heck, just do the presentation without a laptop/powerpoint and I'll be impressed!
don't let them treat you like shit , make them feel like you are listening to them and when you talk try your best to let them know that you know what you are talking about, be polite but assertive
Learn to read their level of understanding of the specifics of what you're selling, and prepare to adjust your pitch accordingly. Some very smart people have very little understanding of marketing principles or tactics, and you can really impress these people with what may feel like basic things if you present it in a way they can understand. 
If you don’t know what you are doing and sold the product before even going into the meeting then you are useless.Gosh these millennials are all the same.
My best practice is to compress it until the image begins to visibly degrade then back it off a couple percentage points. Every image is going to be a little bit different. In the Photoshop Save For Web (Legacy) I usually start at about Quality: 65%. There are better compression tools out there, but this works for me as our emails are not image heavy. And yes, 600px max width is still the best. All my email templates are setup for 600px wide hero images and for most B2B comms I do 600x300px. 
Always aim for a maximum width of 600px to be safe, the height is "endless"
Regarding image file size, I use the online resource tinypng.com and love it! Super easy to use - it often cuts my file sizes down loads of KBs or even MBs. Really helps with image load times!
Eloqua should already be able to fit the image in an optimized way for email, if your template is set up for it.

You should research "eloqua email best practices" for general tips though :)
When I hustled on the side, I used Upwork for several months to get client reviews and a few steady clients. Then I transitioned out of Upwork and was able to utilize my client testimonials to attract more work.  Good luck! 

Yeah bro. I feel the same.

>I have some experience in dm and I’m confident I can pick up what I don’t know.

I am working at a small firm and picking things on the go. 
Small note, dont be too cheap.

If you deliver quality hits and they get their money worth you shouldnt underbid yourself. 

If you feel awkward asking for larger amounts of money push the fact you only do the low price as a favor. Just make up a reason why its a favor.

Basically hinting at the fact you'd like more companies like them that can fork you some money.

Better do this before you saturated all your leads on that one offer and people stop clicking through.

Excuse my English, not my native language. But I think I put my point across.
It depends, are you looking to benefit out of the relationship outside of payment? If you're looking to increase your traffic to your Facebook page or a website, you can have them put your page link on their site as a back link. 

Either have a contract for x-amount of leads or for a set campaign.
First off, what is their goal with the traffic you are sending? 
 Advertising costs are usually calculated on the amount of traffic going to the website or blog and not on the follower amount.   


If I had to hazard a guess I would say around $100 dollars as 140,000 subscribers is a lot of potential readers for this sponsored post. Purely a guess though, If you could provide your unique visitor count and your CTR then I could give you a better estimate.  


Hope this helps. 
I would charge them on a CPM based on monthly post reach. Whether or not your users are actually clicking should not be your concern (it should be their job to optimize their headlines). If you're putting a post in-front of your users, then the media company should pay for it.

Because they are likely monetized through ads, lets try to figure out how much they potentially earn for 10k clicks to their site.

If they have an average RPM of $5-10, this means they'll earn $50.00 to $100.00 for every 10k page visits. This could be more or less if they have direct sells and other ways to monetize their posts.

Lets say you share 5 stories a week. So 20 per month, and each story on average brings them 5k clicks. That would be (5 stories per week x 4 weeks = 20 stories x 5k = 100000)

If you figure 100,000 page visits, they'll earn anywhere from $500.00 to $1000.00. Figure out how much of a % you want. Or you could also do a flat fee, or bill them monthly based on clicks. Don't go crazy here - find a good balance that you're both happy with. 

Honestly, /r/adops would be more helpful in helping you figure out how much the traffic is worth.
Why not charge them on a cpc or cpm basis? If you're going the cpc way, then charge a slight premium over the cpc rates that fb typically charges advertisers. Premium because he's getting a very niche audience 
Post it on other websites like Medium, Quora, etc with links back to the website. Backlinks will help your SEO and make sure to include a content offer that provides value for the reader.
[deleted]
One of the below ways of content marketing is also the best:

You can also select a topic related to your niche from Google search.

Then take two to three references, understand the subject and then create the content in your own words. The content will include the keywords you want to rank for. But don't do stuffing. The content should appear natural.

Publish it on your blog.

Share it on social media as well as bookmark it.

You can earn a profit after it gets ranked in Google for the particular keyword on first page. 
Seems like such a small niche to only go after hosting for digital marketers. Why not go after Wordpress only hosting....it’s worked well for companies like Flywheel. It’s really seamless. 

Aside from that my only annoyance is when clients host on really crappy shared environments. Usually will mess with site speed etc and usually hard to convince them to spend more than 3 dollars a month. 😂😂

A way to easily issue delegate access like go daddy would be brilliant. 
From a hosting perspective there is a huge amount of competition and many which are already optimised for serving Wordpress. So assuming you are not going to be buying a server farm but reselling instead, I think the most important thing is you make sure the performance and reliability is rock solid.

Im not sure digital marketeers are your best market though, unless you want to target people who are starting to get into it. That said what might be quite useful is if you offered a pre configured installation of Wordpress which included a carefully curated set of plugins - for SEO, sitemap generation, affiliate link tracking, social media publishing, FB pixel and google analytics installed etc. Maybe bundle in some premium/paid licensed ones for added value. Better still develop your own and brand it all up as a package.


Adobe Creative Suite...and Facebook Blueprint creative inspiration.
Powtoon- for video and infographics

Magisrtro for Video creations

Canva for image and banner creations
First, contact your former boss and say you need them to provide an account to transfer ownership. Say you need this within 5 working days (or 24 hours, however nice you're feeling!)

If you hear nothing, or they don't supply details, create a dummy account and make this account admin on each page / social network. Remove your main account as the admin. (You can start with this step, if you don't want to wait for them)

Email your former boss with the login information.

Now it's their problem :)
You already got great advice from the previous poster, but I just have to say that this is crazy. Your boss fired you and still left their public image (via social media) in a fired former employee’s hands?! I know there are lots of folks not versed in social media, but that’s ridiculous. He’s luck you aren’t a crazy person, op.
I’ve been waiting for a subreddit like this!
Great and have subscribed.
Cool.  I am subscribing. 
Cool idea.

Personally, I can't remember ever following a narrative through a company's content. Like you say, I see their content intermittently so I can't follow a story if there is one.

I think it's better to have content with a theme instead of a distinct narrative; something that the user recognises is part of the brand. 
Yes. Take a look at youtube company Sugar Pine 7 they do a masterful job of creating a narrative based in loose reality. I believe this could be applied to a B2B or B2C company on any level. World building is an amazing grabber for content and if done right the narrative will have your audience thirsty for more.
This is the type of thing that sounds great when an agency pitches it, but in reality consumers aren't following along, and unless you're creating tremendously entertaining content/providing major value, generally they don't really give a shit about your content at all.
I am a nobody in terms of influence, but on instagram I posted a comic book I wrote. I chopped it up into 40ish pieces, and sometimes people would go back and read the previous issues. I assume this multiplies with a larger audience.

I'm going to try posting the entire anthology when I'm finished uploading the comic, should be a nice piece of content but I don't know if it will get significantly more attention than a usual post from me.
Hi,

As far as online content is considered, you don't need a narrative. you are not writing a fictional novel. The content should be precise, worthy of readers time, informative and free from any unwanted rubbish that is unimportant. People nowadays are short on time..so make your effort count. 
It depends, if you are selling something professional or serious stuff then, its not suitable to use narrative.
But for more interactive and attractive way of delivering your content. You can use narrative.

Visit my blog if you are interested.

amanchandravanshi.in

Thanks. 


I went to college for Marketing, then did a project for a company in my program which eventually landed me a job after I completed college. Now I'm 3+ years plus into the field. 

What I can say is, you can get some online credentials but it's going to be extremely hard to get your foot in the door to work for a company. Most companies look for an educational background in Marketing or quality experience. But if you want to get in the field without any educational background then Hubspot and Google has some good online certificates you can get.
I recommend studying university. If you can't then try to get free jobs in exchange for your first testimonials. This way work your way up to paid more difficult jobs. Get into community too, be active there. 
If your study has not been completed yet, you should finish first. What kind of work do you want to do? Is it online related or others?

Please explain in detail.
Where are you located?  Do you have a college degree (in anything)?  
I learned digital marketing and (almost) everything that goes with of from Lynda.com & similar sites. I think you should start there if you want to educate yourself. Then maybe be a marketing assistant or something of the sort first
SEOpunk is 100% correct.

If you're starting off, I suggest you do a small customer survey on Facebook and conduct some research in your customer personas. 

From there you will get some good insight into what  they do, what they're interested and how they search. Do a customer journey map, from keyword research to your site and how you intend adding value to their lives.

If you can show them than you're more than just someone earning money for leads, then you'll be onto something. 

What other value can you add on to what you're offering. Think about that. 
SEO Punk is right, write for the intended audience.

To expand on that, keep in mind that with nearly ALL search intent, the result is answering the question "What's in it for me?" - Your content needs to answer that fully. Use rich media (images, videos, charts, etc.) to help drive it home. 

Be real.

Don't be a salesmen.

Google is now looking to return not only the most popular (most links) content but, the content that best answers the searchers intent. And by 'best answers' I mean most thouroughly. You may have noticed blogs/websites starting to now post a TL;DR with bulleted lists explaining the short answer and then going on to dive deep into the topic. This *can* help getting into the Knowledge Graph but, also serves to the 'most complete answer' that Google is looking for.

Don't consume yourself with finding just the right keywords. Write the article, add some relevant media then kind of step back and look at the content as a whole. What's the main purpose/question answered? That's your main keyword. 

Content can have a long lifespan as well. Updating old posts with relevant/timely information can work just as well as creating new content. (sometimes better).
What you get paid per lead is way too low. Even I would pay you at least $20 per lead, and I don't even need these leads. Find a better way to monetize, because SEO is going to be a long journey.
After doing keyword research, make sure you use those words on your homepage, titles, etc. Create some blogs, whitepapers, etc and ensure you have a clear call-to-action so visitors can learn more/ take action. There is also research showing updating posts after a while is helpful (i.e. adding a relevant paragraph or two). Posts can't be too long. 2,000 words each is not unheard of but adding a bunch of smaller ones each week won't hurt.

After that, look for similar posts with lots of powerful backlinks, write a better version of those articles, then approach those linkers to see if they're interested in linking as well.

SEO is a long-tail play so don't expect overnight traffic.

Make sure you have Search Console enabled and keep an eye on everything there.
Think like your customer. What information would be helpful to them?
Gain two years working experience AFTER getting your university diploma and you can work in mainland China. I recommend Shanghai.

You can get a job in Hong Kong without the two years working experience, but need to prove they needed you over a local employee, so of they need Portuguese as a language requirement, you'd have quite the strong advantage. Most companies will only hire you though if you're already in HK, so recommend moving to HK with no job and finding one upon arrival.

You can also go to Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand the Philippines and get work there quite easily, or even work for youself as a digital nomad. You can work anywhere, really, as a digital nomad, but countries in SE Asia are super cheap to live in.
A successful, 'powerful' marketing strategy involves a lot of moving parts all working together. 

* Make sure all your data is being recorded. Tracking codes on site for any paid channels. Google (even if you're not advertising, you need to be using google analytics), Facebook, etc. Understand why you need advanced tracking on some pages. (Remarketing, conversions/leads) 
   * Try to learn more than the basics of Google Analytics, it is a very powerful tool that will give you a ton of insight into your business. Might want to consider using Google Tag Manager from the get-go. 
   * Learn a bit about UTMs for more in-depth tracking. 
* Use the data to understand your audience and their motivations and speak to those motivations. 
* Always be testing everything, try to derive ideas from data pulled from Google Analytics, hotjar, mouseflow, other analytics tools. Don't just *test* things for testing sake. Try to have a strategy based upon data -- most managers will need you to be able to explain why the idea will work. Data helps to solve that problem. 
* Understand what a marketing funnel is and how to set one up using tools like leadpages, mailchimp, etc. A/B test your emails and landing pages. 
* Understand the basics of SEO and employ best practices when writing copy -- you need to consider the customer and Google's algorithm. 
* Develop a content strategy (make sure to do a keyword analysis and compete over keywords that you can realistically rank for first), optimize your content's SEO, and frame your content to try to move people into your funnel. Keep the content engaging, relevant, and unique. 
* Mobile first design -- make sure things load quickly on mobile and usability is great.  


These are just a few of the necessary items for the beginnings of a powerful strategy. Typically, there would be multiple people working on such a strategy, because many of the things I've outlined (Analytics, SEO, Email Marketing, content marketing, design/development, etc.)  are specializations. It's near impossible to execute a great marketing strategy on your own, while testing things and making sure that you're keeping up with the latest trends/policy updates.  


This is where I would start. 

&#x200B;
Well a lot depends on what your current set up and goals are. Really there's no such thing as 'digital strategy' there's a marketing strategy that will incorporate online and offline in a consistant, coherent and cohesive way.

- Start with a target audience, maybe a persona if you're gonna actually use it 
(segment - target - position) 
- What's the customer journey look like? This will help you decide which channels are appropriate for your persona.
- Set some channel objectives, what is the purpose of each channel. Smart goals are one way you could do this. 
How will you use it and why? Maybe use a RACE framework to help identify what you could do where.
One of the great things about digital channels in comparison to offline is the measurability
The first answer has some excellent points on this so I won't add anymore.
Once you know who you're trying to hit, where they are etc you can being to put your plan in place for messaging, keywords, content strategy, (compass and calendar creation) keep them agile as things change all the time.

Message me. I have a n'est way to take
As far as I'm aware (I'm an apprentice) you want to look at the percentage of conversions. 
Edit: Didn't really say why, the reason for this is because if a page is shown more often than another itll probably get more dowloads doesnt mean its better. I do analytics sort of at my work and when im collecting the stats we always work with conversions rates instead of numbers. 
Look at what lessons you can learn from each page

Why does page (a) have a high conversion rate, where is that traffic coming from? What's happening on page and can you test some of those element on page (b) to boost conversion rates on that page? 

And conversely, why is page (b) getting the traffic and where is it coming from? What can you learn from that to try and improve page (a). 
Both important if you can learn from them. But to me the page with the traffic is the highest value (that's how a search engine would see it) and that's where I'd look to improve 

This is sort of subjective. If you're focused on the conversions/conversion-rates from paid search then it comes down to what your budget is, what you're doing with the email addresses/gate info, and if you have an established target CPA (cost per acquisition) for a download. 

That landing page with a 66.67% conversion rate can probably inform some of your content strategy and brand positioning going forward. The audience for that ad may be smaller, but they also may be a better fit for your content/services/whatever you're selling. That said, sample size of 14 clicks and 2 downloads is still to small to make any big assumptions.

&#x200B;

Have all these ads been running for the same amount of time? The page with the higher traffic and higher volume of downloads is currently providing you more value ONLY IF you've spent appropriately on it, and the right people are engaging. 
Typically, you want to look at the conversion rate (%). It’s tempting to take the page with 66% conversion as a better performing one but given the difference in numbers, that doesn’t appear to be objective.

Here is the question I’d ask myself if I were you:
What stage of the customer journey each page is created for? On some stages (consideration, conversion) visitors are more inclined to convert than on others (awareness).

Also, why one page gets more visits than the other?

So, before comparing the success of two pages, figure out the big difference between them.
How can you be spending $13,000 a month without pixel tracking?

Whatever you're talking about is nonsense without data. Get data then make an argument.
Are the 17 pages locations? 

Either way, my argument for using Facebook ads would be:

\- Deeper analytics, i.e. Ad Recall Rate, Engagements, Tracking

\- Ability to A/B test with different objectives i.e. awareness, video views, conversions

\- Ability to help prevent cross over with audience segmenting

\- Wider placement i.e. audience network, pre-roll, etc

\- Frequency and Reach placement to determine and set how many times the same audience is seeing your ad

\- Test and actually run different CTAs

\- Scheduling ads ahead of time

\- Then eventually running a sequential campaign 
Optimizely, Google Optimize -- very easy to track, very easy to install.
I know the founder of effectiveexperiments.com

Great tool for exactly this!
Lots of good A/B testing tools out there. Doing everything manually is a lot of work, and manually tracking results. How are you actually deploying the A/B tests/running versions of pages alongside one another?
Are there any free tools, any one used?
There’s plenty out there. Did you do your research?
You’re correct. If you’re running an A/B test, your audience will be split 50:50 at random, where half will see ad A and half will see B. This will allow you to determine a winner.
On the other hand, running multiple ads to the same audience will just push all ads at the same time, and then depending on which performs best Facebook will show that ad more. 

An example of when I used A/B testing was when each ad was advertising an offer at a different price. Didn’t want to run the risk of someone seeing both ads as they conflicted with one another. But if I was just testing content (eg different images), I wouldn’t bother A/B testing as I wanted people to see both ads to see which one they engaged with more.
For your second question, you’re just trying to determine a winner for al the variables, as quick as possible, right? I’d be interested in a strategy for this, as I find conclusions for all the variables take a long time to determine. Multiple A/B tests and a lot of money. 

Does anyone have a solution?
After a few weeks, always replace your lowest performing ad and continuously A/B test. :)
I also stumbled upon Nightwatch recently and so far, so good :) I am on starter+ plan for $39 but they have regular starter plan for $19, too. Good luck
I would be very interested in knowing if there are any cheap alternatives because SimilarWeb and Hitwise are ridiculously priced just for personal use
most of them are at $99 per month, really need to find a software soon
Try Serpstat, their lowest plan is $19/month. Didn't fit my needs but might be something for you.
You could look into group buys, there are a few options out there that will give you access multiple applications for around the $20 figure. Some group buys are better then others though so you might have to test a few out.
This is digital marketing but a generalist. I've been in a similar role and it was a lot of fun. The problem I had with being the jack of all trades is that I never had time to really dig deep into each trade's specialization.
It’s definitely digital marketing that you are doing, but it is very much generalised digital marketing - not necessarily a bad thing. I would imagine you are very busy but without the time to dig deeper into each marketing field? For example, I am a Marketing Manager for my company, but I specialise in social media - and, of course, I would have no time to do any other sort of digital marketing because it is a whole job in itself. 

I would hazard a guess that your employer possibly isn’t aware of just how much you do, seeing as you oversee digital marketing in its entirety. A larger marketing department would perhaps have managers of each channel (social media, PPC etc) working under you.

In terms of looking elsewhere, you may want to become a specialist in a specific field of digital marketing that you enjoy doing? But if you want to stay in your current role, I would definitely suggest taking it up with your employers about your value to the company. It seems like you play a pivotal role! Hope this helps!
Talk to an experienced headhunter at least to get an outside perspective.  Try to find one that's been around at the same agency for a while who knows the market for marketers. A good one  can give some real insight. The trick is to find a real good one.
% of spend with a firm ROI target is my preferred method. With flat fee the incentive for the agency is to do just enough to keep the client while
Minimizing cost to the agency. % of spend with ROI target aligns incentives of the client and agency while giving both the incentive to scale the business profitably.
Flat fee... % imo creates a conflict of interest so we stay away from it.
Comment to follow
F
nothing like hubspot academy honestly
Yes. Literally you can set it up to copy your Google Ads campaigns and auto update so you don't really have to touch it outside of normal optimization.

Bing was smart and copied and integrated with Google.
That title though

&#x200B;
If you're currently getting Adwords certification, it's probably also worth getting Bing certified too, yes. It can never hurt, and depending on your company's or client's needs, running Bing campaigns can be a very useful skill.

I'd recommend getting Bing certified unless maybe you just have no extra bandwidth and you'd be pulling yourself away from other projects or education that are more immediately valuable. (This is all assuming you're in the U.S. market. I can't speak on Bing's reach outside the U.S.)
 Sprout Social is a good alternative for Hootsuite. But I am not sure if its has the feature that you are looking for. You can schedule and monitor posts from  Sprout Social.
Spredfast is pretty popular. I've worked for companies who've used them and they seemed really impressed by it. I for sure know that you can do very specific entry details with their software because I helped manage a few client's social accounts. 
I have done a campaign for a similar company.

We did:
- PPC and retargeted users from the landing page with display ads (best overall performance)
- pre-roll video ads on your tube targeting individuals searching "diy fire damage restoration"
- A native ad that focused on the clients process and lead to a form fill landing page (had best ROI)

PM if you need any help
My first thought is paid search. Then you can intercept people who are actually searching for fire restoration services. 
Paid search and bid aggressively because that vertical is ultra competitive. 
Paid search and paid social
Set Google alerts for fire-related terms appearing in the news in the area that your client services. Then try and direct outreach to the people / businesses who come up in the news for fires.

It wouldn't be the whole campaign but could be a good component to include for future customers.
Lots of ideas.

- contact matchmakers locally and strike some kinda of affiliate marketing type deal with them. Try sell good guy image as your company does a noble work.

- contact some good bloggers that write article on fire and make affiliate marketinf deal with them.

- Reach out famous instagramers and make some kinda of affiliate deals. 

- Upload some youtube videos of drills and random work. Promote good company image in those. Maintain a channel of 20 videos

- search competitor's website and know what they do that u are not doing. How is their website and business model better. Do alex ratings and see where ur company stands. Try create better sales funnel and see from there.

Marketing is an art of selling. Learn the art, hone your skills. It is the future. Good luck 
- Build a website in WordPress and promote it on FB/insta, AdWords and with Content. 
- Collect email addresses and use mail chimp to send an email campaign
- Connect Google analytics and track measurables

I would work on creating organic audiences.  Try to build an IG account about X and grow it to 1K, 10K, 25K.  Build out a pinterest board.  

Goto an affiliate network and find some offers that you think you can deliver traffic to.  


Where do you live?
PM me. I consult for Fortune 500s. Happy to help. 

Edit: typo
I'm currently a placement student and to grow my knowledge, I have found reading Building A Story Brand by Donald Miller is really insightful and will change your perspective on Marketing and also give you some great ideas.

I'm about 6 chapters in and it is really opening my eyes.
Find someone you know that has a small business and ask to run some Adwords campaigns for them for free.
A company called DigitalGrads do a free online digital marketing course and once you’ve completed it your profile goes on their ‘hiring hub’ where you can get an internship / a job 
You should be looking for an entry level position where you can learn on the job. Try to find a job that will let you try different things -- analytics, social, programmatic video and display, paid search, seo/rep mgmt, etc. 

Personally I think paid social both in terms of campaign fulfillment and analytics/data analysis is a great place to specialize. Companies are more willing to hire youngsters for those roles and there's lots of room for growth.

Maybe trade desk or choozle?
Not sure if I missed it but are you marketing in Brazil? How do you know your competition is selling more? Maybe its a tough niche and they are struggling too? In general I'd say you need to optimize and market a little stronger. Like emails.. maybe your content isnt a strong enough sell to get people to pull out their credit cards. If you are determined to do this on your own try a email marketing course on Udemy? 

Likes and followers are great but that wont automatically trigger sales. I dont think there is any issues posting your product here, and if you are not comfortable thats okay, but it would help to see you in action. 

Lastly, in marketing we know that people dont just consistently buy - its a matter of posting at the right time. Maybe its back to school time and people are focused on other things for a little while. 
The hard part about fashion is that it’s one of the most saturated niches there is and you really get one shot at creating repeat customers - which is especially difficult when ambiguous sizing/returns are factored in. I might recommend consulting with pro ecomm marketers. It’s expensive, but eventually it takes more than an entrepreneur or a small team to continue growing the biz.
Are you using faceboook/instagram advertising?

And do you have your Facebook Pixel installed?
Dude, you're basically an alchemist as a digital marketer. 

Firat and foremost, most companies don't know a lot about marketing. They don't even know the basics of running ads. 

Edit: If your looking to land a job, look towards the big companies that are lagging behind in the digitalization journey. They already have a lot of money and can pay a lot for someone to come in and start streamlining their marketing processes. 

They don't know how to craft a headline that makes people act (click, sign up, register, install an app, etc), nonetheless how to do a simple split test. 

You just need to be a little selective on what jobs you choose. 

If you're freelancing, it can be hard to say no to money - I get that. But, the real opportunity is not in short term contracts, it's in getting hired as a marketer in an early stage company (no, it doesn't have to be a startup in SV) and getting the opportunity to purchase shares for a pre-money valuation. 

The only thing that separates "good marketers" from mediocre marketers is not really expertise or knowledge...

It's making sure you market a product or service that you know how to market. 

For example, I would never ever say yes to a marketing job for a pharmaceutical company, a pet supplies company, or even a consulting company.

I don't know jack sh*t about what their audiences want. 

However, when it comes to marketing software and online courses, I know how to reach professionals and how to work with a sales team to convert prospects into customers. 

I would also gladly take a job in fashion e-commerce. 

The marketing mechanics are always more or less the same. 

It's using advertising platforms (most commonly Facebook, Google and LinkedIn), some form of communications tool (email or a messenger platform), optimizing communication on the website and making sure you talk to customers to find out their needs and pains. 

All this can be learned in a week. It's just knowing where to click and what settings to avoid. 

But it's the text on the ads, the content on your website, the approach to solving pains, that really matters. 

That's where the experience kicks in, and this takes time, effort, blood, sweat and tears to learn. 

By niching down, and by only marketing products and services you KNOW how to market, you will have an extremely bright future. 

So, the next time you search for a job... If you don't immediately get 10+ ideas on how to improve the marketing or how to reach more customers, try saying no. 

Because when you niche down you eventually will become an authority in your field. 

When you're an authority, you'll get a higher salary and you'll be asked to stay.

When you're asked to stay in a company, they can offer you stock options for a good price that you then can sell for a hefty amount. 

It's almost never the salary that makes a marketer rich, it's the investments. 

Also, if you really want to stay a freelancer, try negotiating deals that pay you for each lead you bring in. 

That can help you make a lot of money. 
I had some similar thoughts recently. I think Digital Marketing as a whole is booming right now. Lots of new tools, advertising platforms, and different strategies. It wont be going away any time soon. 

However, career wise, based on what i've seen there are 2 main directions. 1) do your own thing 2) work for an agency. The working for an agency, at entry level, likely means long hours and low to average pay. It should pay the bills but the real value there is working with some potentially big clients and just learning new things. If you jump in - have a plan. Maybe specialize in something down the road.

Regarding actually landing a job.. if you interview but dont get accepted always always always ask what you can do to strengthen your resume. Find out what kind of skills they are looking for. I refuse to believe its simply "we need someone with a batchelors". Maybe they want someone that knows facebook or google analytics. What I would do is go on my own and learn everything I possibly can. That way anything they ask me, I can confidently say yes im famliar with it.

Its a long and interesting road this marketing world. Its also always changing. If you're into all that.. skys the limit.

Good luck! :) 
I worked for an agency in LA for over 5 years. I learned everything I could possibly learn but got burnt out. I have also done freelance work with some success but sustainable. I now work I house for a marketing department and love it. Pay is good, pressure is low and I still get to use a ton of new platforms.
I've been freelancing for about 6 months now in this field part-time. Although it does not fully pay my bills yet I can definitely see when it will be very soon. Of course this way is more of a challenge, but I also didn't want to start at an agency because I knew after that I'd be too comfortable with it and probably never would've tried freelancing on my own, if that makes any sense lol.
Register for all the attempts at building local directories and fill in more details then anyone else did.

&#x200B;

The guys pushing these sites tend to pimp built out profiles more then you would expect if you get on a good up and coming platform at the right time.
Free? There's nothing free anymore, I guess) But I would advise you to register your business in local cataloges. However, you might find that many would require some fee for business claiming.
Unfortunately not, that only works in Groups
No you can disable the comments for a post, you can even delete them, but you can keep them for approval
Why specifically digital marketing though? I mean, why change industry in which you’re studying to work in?

Or do you just want quick and easy ways to make money online? 

Freelance content writing for engineering firms etc is a logical option.
One thing you can start out by helping different companies to maintain their online presence and also update in different social media platforms. You would be basically working as a freelancer or permanent employee depending upon company policies.

Good luck.

Partha
Social listening.  Search #omg or #wow to see what is everyone excited about

Let say lots of people are into buying certain brand of home decor. You can monetize in a ecom site. Building the ecom site and applying your marketing knowledge to make it your next portfolio items. 

Of course u will set up all Analytics u already know to track your progress. And use ecom site to test the effectiveness of your ads campaign, from creating audience,  to ad sets, keywords,  the actual ads

It is important to continue to refine your skill application and build portfolio asset whenever you are in your career.

It may not be ecom site u want, or maybe promote a certain brand as affiliate,  etc.

Turn to social channels to find hottest ideas that is relevant and timely 
Hi !!!

**If you bored:**

1: I suggest Help people in Reddit & Quora, you can easily help people in your niche on quora which is more pro Q&A website with your knowledge. Plus you will learn by helping people learn by their feedback and others Q&A in both Quora & Reddit. Do it for an hour / day, believe me you learn a lot and help people if you subscribe to your fav topics or subreddit.

2 Use Feedly app & Pocket to learn from your niche everyday (10 minutes to 1 hour or more per day) to keep connected to your domains and learn a lot

&#x200B;

**If you want earn more:**

1: You seem the perfect guy to Start a blog (at your rythme) and provide good value to people... So I suggest you to Blog too. if you want later you can monetize your blog or make a side business on it. This would be YOUR side project: Help people trough a blog and share your experience.

&#x200B;

**If you want some business ideas:**

\-POD (print on demand) trough instagram in your fav topic (but with some researchs ofc)

\-Dropshipping (the hot trending business topic) with a website in your fav topic (but with some researchs ofc)

\-Sale Coaching hours trough your blog and your knowledge

&#x200B;

Hope i helped you,

Manuel Drabor

&#x200B;
I know Spain is a much different market from where I am (the U.S.) but have you tried signing up small to mid sized clients for digital agency type work? 

I've had pretty good experiences with focusing on SEM but social and programmatic channels work well too. Keep your product offering simple and optimize the campaigns on nights/weekends when you're not at the office (make sure you don't do any side work during your regular job hours).
I run said digital marketing company in India is planning to find outsourced work from North America. This is too early in digital marketing, and the field is going to be very similar to IT. Which is to say teams comprising of managers and senior level people working in client facing roles in the US, and outsourcing execution part of the work to lower cost countries such as India. 

While you may not see this happening a lot right now, it will eventually get there. Note that Accenture, an IT outsourcing pioneer, is the world's biggest digital marketing company by revenue in 2017-18. 

But this doesnt mean you shouldn't do this course. The senior positions and client facing roles are going to be where the meat is for digital marketing professionals in your country. And the cultural context and client interaction part(which is a bigger portion of the work in marketing than in IT) is going to be stable and premium. 

No career track is going to be future proof. Go ahead and do the course, and it will give you a good ruj for 10 years. By when you will have experience and will not be in trouble.

Arguments about people not able to work with and coordinate with offshore teams is off the mark. This is a just a teething issue of the industry, or is an issue at mid and lower sized companies. This is going to pan out pretty much like IT, if you want a frame of reference to think about it.
[deleted]
Not much of an impact.  Maybe you'll find it harder if you're pricing your services low or don't have much experience, but once you gain experience, it won't have much of an impact at all.  

A lot of people find it difficult to work with offshore resources or just try someone in their local area more.  If you can prove success, just sell yourself accordingly and you should be fine.  

Also, I don't have too much experience with HR, but I don't see why that can't be outsourced either.  
If it is twitter, retweet other content regularly. And reply promptly to direct msg and sb retweet your clients content and social mention. Create a twitter list will help you to monitor account u want to retweet from. 

Try to follow your clients prospects twitter account with the client twitter account.  Listen to them and reply to their tweet. Get to know them so they feel you care.

Use twitter as a PR and announcement tool not just a content scheduling tool.

If there is a event or promotion. Film a twitter video or took pictures about it and post on twitters b4 and after event. That will surely make it more viral. It showing your events or promotion success. E.g photo with VIP guest, the crowd etc. Or if it is a promotion u can showcase the promotion prize or product not by itself but in hands of happy customer or illustrated the product on customer. E.g how a makeup look like on a customer make over

If it is Facebook, similarly tactic can follow. You can also create Facebook Group for your client that will touch upon the topics your client customer will be interested. E.g Quick Makeup Makeover can be a group for a makeup vendor. You can after warm up your crowd and built relationships in your group. Once relationships is built invite individually to fan page

Your fan page can talk about industry trend and answer common customer concerns may have b4 becoming a customer. Like what they will be worrying and resolve it with blog post. And once a week only to mention product or service offer. Be valued added rather sounding u want sales. That will help grow your crowd

YouTube wise you want to create awesome video that illustrates the benefit of the product or service and how easy to follow step by step guide. It is the video content that will drive the referral to affiliates or sales. Make sure video description and keyword are set for SEO. Of course include call to action and target link in description 
Get the certifications for Google Ads (AdWords) and Analytics, along with Blueprint. Blueprint could be a little tricky if you’ve no experience with running FB ads however.

Check out the free HubSpot certs in Inbound and Email - easy but respected.

Know each social networks different ad interface and setup - and all the different types of ads.

I’d try get a short (but paid!) digital marketing internship if possible, will help you stand out. As a lot of entry level roles will ask for some experience.

Other skills like Excel, CMS platforms like WordPress and Adobe Creative Suite go a long way and are very much needed day to day as a digital marketer.

Use LinkedIn for job searches, and have an all star profile.

It is good that you are doing all the courses online but I recommend you to start a website as well. Whatever you learn from the courses should be applied on your website.
If you do not have any product or service to sell through your website then no problem, just start writing blogs. Learn SEO from Moz and apply everything on your blogs. Try to rank them on SERP's and get some organic traffic.
Learn some social media marketing from SOCIAL MEDIA EXAMINER. Also, complete the inbound marketing course from hubspot to have a basic foundation of digital marketing.
When you have some good numbers in your Google analytics, show them to the interviewer. He/she will understand that you do not only have the theoretical knowledge from the courses but you have some experience as well. This will make you stand out in the crowd.
When I gave my first interview, I opened my analytics on my phone and showed the interviewers. I was hired in my first interview itself.
Best of luck.
I'd recommend spending at least a year or two in sales. It'll teach you a lot about how to explain what it is that you do to the layperson in a way they can respond well to. Some people go full bore into the technical details or building websites, managing PPC accounts, designing ads, which can also work, but the job market is much more difficult to enter if you only have back end skills. If you're also capable of being client facing you'll have more and better paying opportunities.
You're in the UK, so Google's Digital Garage is a great training, too, specific to Europe. I'm in the US and international shipping is a meh unless you are a large business, but in Europe, it makes more sense. Consider looking into it.
Where are you based? What city?
challenge yourself to get a site ranked on the first page of google. See how that goes.

You really need to be given some work experience. 
Besides classic digital marketing skills I would also recommend looking more into data-driven skills as those will definitely be helpful for digital marketing and will help you easily stand out from other job candidates.

More specifically I would recommend courses for Excel, SQL, Basic Stats, Google Analytics, Data Visualization and Storytelling/presentation skills.

Check out[ my other post](https://www.reddit.com/r/marketing/comments/96lwf3/digital_marketing_what_do_i_need_to_learn_or_do/e41w9w3/?context=3), where I talk more in detail about this.
Add him through facebook ad manager as a moderator.
Add the IG profile to your Facebook Business Manager, and give them access through that.

Or, use a management tool like Buffer and give them access.
What the first guy said. I have a guide I send all my clients to either:

Make me an admin

Or to fix their Facebook name. 

Fb opens insta. So when you add them on FB you add them on insta too. 
Use  LastPass. Super clutch for this. Basically let's you share your password with freelancers and whoever so they can log in but they never see the password. Once you are finished you just revoke access 
Use a third-party tool to manage your account and create him a profile within said tool. 
Im really sorry as i have no room for my time. Try to google its quite easy step by step follow. 
It might sound pretty basic but we use analytics and can get a glimpse with the behavior flow and goal flow reports. Tracking campaigns accordingly allow us deeper insights into the customers' journey. Understanding their behavior within that, we use our in-house data and use good ol' excel. 
We use fullstory and heap. 

Fullstory is addicting...  you’ll watch your users navigate around and learn how to make a better User experience.  
If a website, hotjar.
Digitally, we use linknexus, its a platform with analytics and the ability to set if/then reactions.
[removed]
No there is no harm in using Wix. But being a digital marketer when you plan to do SEO for your website then you may face some problem. Because Wix doesn't allow to do any backend modification especially in coding area.
It depends on what you are selling. If you are selling creative web services, it makes more sense to have a website designed by you rather than tools like Wix.
If you care about SEO then pick a wordpress theme with great reviews and support (look for fast loading and SEO friendly themes). Many of them are very customizable and super easy to install. You don't have to reinvent the wheel. I usually can deal with some design drawbacks, but cannot stand badly coded websites that break after each plugin install. Grab a decent hosting and you are all set! \~100 bucks a year for hosting, 30-100 for wp theme (one-time or annually). By putting some effort into content you can achieve great results online whatever they may be. Use youtube or reddit to find answers to questions that might come up. There are no coding skills required.
It's not a must, but you should have a website of your own.
Check out Webflow. It has a higher learning curve than wix or wordpress, but you can customize everything and learn the basics and structure of HTML. 

They also have tons of tutorials and resources to help you learn it. 
If you’re strictly trying to retarget users who were interested in your initial comedy posts, I’d highly recommend running Facebook video ads and retargeting people based on the % of the video they watched and create a funnel like that.

If you’re also looking to run ads on Snapchat or are looking at running Geofilter campaigns, we’d be happy to help or give advice. Also, we have an article outlining the most common mistakes people make advertising with Snapchat filters - it could also certainly help you get ideas on your ad creatives (even if you’re only looking at Facebook right now):
https://www.buycustomgeofilters.com/blog/top-10-mistakes-you-could-make-when-submitting-your-geofilter-to-snapchat
Like and responses are great, but how many times did the ad convert? Were you reaching your true target audience, or just people who found the meme comical? If you're looking to have someone manage your online presence, drop me a line!
Are you sure that you actually need a company? Learning the art of Facebook / Google Ads is not that difficult. 

Personally I studied on various online resources for free. Now I know a thing or two about advertising online and can manage ad campaigns on my own. 

Using A/B testing, I decide what works best for me and improve my skills. I relly recommend following my advice (if you have some time, of course)
Check out marketingschool.io for a very informational, easily digestible podcast!
Never use a template. Templates make your writing look creepy and spammy. People recognize a template in a second, even from the topic of your letter. 

You’d better write each letter from the start every time. You will spend much more time than using a template, but I promise you’ll get better results. 

Before sending a letter, learn as much as you can about the recipient: from Facebook, LinkedIn, their website. Then write FOR them. 

Think this, imagine you as your potential client. Would you respond to the canned email which doesn’t tall to you directly but in general OR would you respond to a letter, which was written for you and includes information about you and for you?
Considering the English quality in the post, I'd think it isn't going to be fruitful for either side 
Find an internship in your country. A US-based company won't even try. 

Also, make up the experience: take a couple companies and develop hypothetical campaigns and marketing plans for them. But your English must be stellar or you can forget about doing any actual work in English. 
Sorry there’s no way for a company to go through such a fuss to hire an intern outside their country.
An obvious one, but SEMrush. They have been adding so many more cool tools this past year to their platform.
My favourite is Klaviyo!! It's like Hubspot but so much cheaper. Perfect for ecommerce!!

I would try that app you just mentioned..

Anyway there are lots of cool tools out there you can use for your digital Marketing campaigns, as these are what we use at our agency - www.tagetmedia.com

• GoViral - For Social Media Marketing
• Lumen 5 - For Digital and Social Media Marketing
• Animaker - For Social Media
• Moz Tool - For Digital Marketing
• Buzzsumo - For Digital Marketing and lot more
This is the official Google resource for creating UTM links which should give you all the info you need. https://ga-dev-tools.appspot.com/campaign-url-builder/
https://ga-dev-tools.appspot.com/campaign-url-builder/

Use this to build UTM parameter and check with one source you find it in real time(analytics) as campaign.
[https://ga-dev-tools.appspot.com/campaign-url-builder/](https://ga-dev-tools.appspot.com/campaign-url-builder/)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpdpKcijh1Y](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpdpKcijh1Y)
What social media platforms are you advertising on?
why are you charging clients if can't manage tags
Hey! I totally feel your struggle, it's hard to get work experience when most jobs or clients require a portfolio or some form of hands-on experience in the field. When looking for experience, I came across a really cool platform where you can do just that. I want to clarify that it is an unpaid position, however, it offers you [quantifiable digital marketing experience](https://genm.co/?utm_source=reddit&utm_medium=forum&utm_campaign=reddit3) and connects you with businesses who are looking for a bit of help for just 5 to 10 hours a week. You can start building your portfolio, see what you like best in the realm of digital marketing, and even get a testimonial from the business you work with for 3 months. 
Hope this helps!
Most agencies seem to charge an arm and a leg for their services. Tons of local businesses that can't afford that. Start with them and offer your service dirt cheap to get started 
Hi! I'm struggling with this as well but one of the easiest things you can do right now is start a blog!

Start writing about the things you have learned so far with actionable advice for others. 

Drive traffic to your content, keep track of this in Google Analytics and do a case study on your blog. 

Experiment with different tactics to get traffic, document them.

Another thing you can do is answer questions on Quora. Build some authority and get your answers ranked in Google. I've seen a few people accelerate their careers based off of their writing on Quora. 

These things should help you land a job, it'll show not only do you know about these concepts, you've actually executed them with success. This will also help you figure out what types of channels you are most comfortable with and what you want to specialize in. 

To find paid work though, start with your immediate network, do you know anyone with a small business that hasn't started using digital marketing? Or has and hasn't seen results. Pitch to them, figure out how to help them and use their results in your portfolio on your website/blog.

You never know who might need your help. Even a simple post on Facebook saying that you just started out as a digital marketing consultant and you're looking for clients would help. 

I hope these tips were helpful! 


Hey! I understand how that feels like. Personally it comes to 2 main skills learnability and adaptability. Rise in AI has definitely made a lot of impact in digital marketing and you can clearly check it out online. B2B marketing is trending in recent times and LinkedIn becoming the most famous choice for everyone. Its called programmatic marketing and LinkedIn is the best platform for it. You just need to have good connections and everything will fall in place. You can definitely check out my course on programmatic marketing which is the next thing in digital marketing https://www.udemy.com/share/100hMcAEoedFdXTXg=/. All the best mate!
Basic strategy I'd recommend is to write at least 1 in-depth article on both topics/keywords and make sure to include the keyword in the first 1-2 headlines and early in the first paragraph after the first headline.

Remember, search engines go for relevancy. The more relevant your article is to the people searching for your keywords, the higher up you will be. 

Try to make your articles easy to read (short paragraphs, short sentences, simple words), at least 1500 words and find a nice structure. The easiest way to make sure your articles are to structured is to go: Motivation (why should I care about this article and topic); Information (the actual info, knowledge, experience, expertise about the topic); Action (what steps to take next, how to implement)

After that, the next factors for search ranking are loading time (make sure so optimize images with TinyPNG or sth. similar), don't use more images than needed. Use a website speed checker like Google Pagespeed Insights to check what you could improve.

Also important are SSL/https. (yes, even without any data input fields on the website) as well as mobile optimization. So, making sure, that visitors have a great experience, even on tablets and phones. I guess wix makes sure of that automatically in your case.

Hope this helps and good luck :)

PS: Forget about backlinks and social. Way to overrated. I've had articles on #1 with literally 0 backlinks and social mentions in  high-competition markets, by simply having the best information in the article. (I guess read time i.e. time on page is something Google looks veeeeery close at. 
Depends on your skill set. If you code HTML/CSS/Java/jQuery/etc. than go for the UX positions. If you're better at photoshop, indesign and final cut, look at design roles. You will make the most money at the position you will have the most value. Junior UX jobs and mid-level design stuff is basically the same. 
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/graphic_design] [Career moves after digital marketing account manager role at agency](https://www.reddit.com/r/graphic_design/comments/8lvra6/career_moves_after_digital_marketing_account/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
Buffer. I can't recommend any other and I've used several.
For scheduling I use HubSpot. 

Creative? As in, creating or being a creative? Facebook Creative Hub for mocking up ads etc. 

Depends on what you’re creating really. 
I would definitely recommend eClincher! I do a lot of creative stuff for clients, lots of content, images, etc. It has definitely made it a whole lot easier. I feel like its way easier to use compared to others like Hootsuite, but that's just me. 
I'm a fan of Co-Schedule to link campaigns and visually see my content calendar. I haven't used eClincher before though.
I would recommend Jarvee. Lots of useful functionalities too.
Hmmm, I have used various like Buffer, Hootsuite, and like you mentioned, Facebook's own scheduler. I honestly just prefer to make a trello board. It is similar to the excel sheet you are using, but you can also collaborate  with others if in a team.
Google spreadsheets with lots of conditional formatting to make it more user friendly.

Run Date, Initials(creator), status (need, ready, posted), headline, copy, visual description, link, notes

Edit: some more thoughts/notes

It’s cloud-based so everyone can view updates in real time, better than an excel file. You can add a column with text that links to the creative. You can simply create folders in google drive as a directory. Or even link to the FB draft to see it in a native context.

We use Google Suites so there is a degree of hierarchical security/permissions. But as long as you are careful with the file share settings you shouldn’t be exposed to any undue risk.
SEO does take time... but link building is a part of the SEO process and could refer traffic sooner than later. Think about having your website listed in local business directories, community associations, on freelance sites or use guest blogging etc.  The outreach you do to build backlinks also helps to build your professional network and business opportunities. The links will help build page authority but you may also pick up direct traffic from the listings themselves. 
Have you tried to build a following on LinkedIn yet?  If you can grow your network there and actively share interesting content, that may help speed things up a bit.
>Are there any ways I can generate targeted traffic organically, 'now'?

No. SEO takes time.
I have a new site also. I find Pinterest has been a pretty decent traffic driver, but honestly I'd love to hear other opinions as well. 
Need more time to get traffic. You should find a SEO company.

[Imran md ali](http://www.bootcampmastermindprogram.com/bootcamp) 
Try out some content marketing maybe through blogs, LinkedIn pulse, LinkedIn company page, ask your clients if you can have a powered by one stop email hyperlink in the footer of their emails (give the ones who agree a discounted rate) 
There are so many ways to do this. I would try Google Ads, that seems to work the best. You have to make sure you create the ad very carefully though. Take your time and optimize it as best you can. People will be searching for the keywords you are using in those ads and since you're as is the first they see, they'll be more likely to clink your link. 
Your first port of call would be to connect with influencers who are posting around the same topics as your blog, share and comment on their stuff so that later down the road you can leverage those connections to promote your own stuff.

You have to give  a little to get. But influencer outreach will be the key to growth.
Expect a marathon, not a sprint. Every person that comes to your blog that isn't a family member is choosing to read your post over doing something else on a website with a million followers (like here). It's going to take a while for a lot of people to make that choice. 

You should spend as much time promoting your blog as writing content. Honestly, I spend more time promoting my blog than writing. 

Spend time on different platforms. Reddit is great, but check out Pinterest and IG as well. If you have time, use Twitter and FB too. Every place you post is another audience you can get to. 

Hope that helps! Good luck. 
First and foremost, produce great content. There are hundreds of thousands of blogs on the internet. Think why would anyone, spend 5-10 minutes reading your content rather than spending that time on YouTube or social media? That's because they're looking for something. You have to focus on delivering that. Even if your post is a 5-min read, the readers will be agitated if they don't find what they were looking for! 

After you're done with the content, look for promotion techniques. Reddit, Quora, Medium are some great platforms for content marketing. Don't just go on putting up links to your posts in random places. Find questions and answers that are related to what you just wrote, and write a snippet of your answer along with the link to your blog. Slowly, when you sincerely follow this without offending the search engines in almost anyway, the traffic will increase. 
There are many things to cover since content marketing and digital marketing are quite vast spheres. You can go through our blogs [here ](http://oddrepublic.com/Home/blog)on these topics and see what fits your needs best, or send me a message with the specifics and I would be glad to answer your questions!

Have a nice day.
Do not forget to add images. People do not like reading blocks of text for a long period of time, so use pictures to break up paragraphs and make it easier on the readers. 
http://todayonsocial.com/2018/04/26/instagram-stories-uploading/ Instagram updates their stories platform

Twitter Promote Mode: https://business.twitter.com/en/solutions/twitter-promote-mode.html
VPN Subscriptions Doubled Following the FCC’s Net Neutrality Repeal. Does this affect display ad targeting? If so how?
[deleted]
[removed]
Create value to the reader! Try to create the best content possible so its gets the reader excited about visiting/reading your blog. Its going to be tough because they are so many blogs online that are very similar, so be unique! Also, know the reader and who you are writing too, this is a step a lot of people forget about. They dont target a audience, so they never get success. Aside from that the guys above did a good job explaining the rest. Best of luck! Contact me for any more questions. Thanks.
Find a similar product that targets the same people and make a look alike audience. 
I’m in the U.K. but my answers shouldn’t be too dissimilar. 

~Firstly sign the paper work~
For me this is normally an NDA (non disclosure agreement) and a contract. You might think an NDA is OTT but if you’re about to reduce pricing or launch a new product you’d want to keep it private until it lands. 

A contract is key as at the end of the day you’re paying for a service and they need to agree to a set of deliverables which defines the service e.g 2 posts, 1 story, 1 tweet...

List everything that you expect and the timescales. Only with this you can then say they provided their service or they didn’t. They should also have some agreements on their side to define payment methods and invoice times, stop thinking of it as a person on social and instead a business, this is b2b and you’re paying a business or brand for a service. 

~Tracking~
If they’re a business profile or verified account they should have the ability to add links to their stories (being one of the former should tell you about their professionalism too). Via the links in the stories you want to be setting up UTM tracking so you can track and monitor traffic in the target websites google analytics account. From this you can see if users took the desired action or just had a browse and abandoned.

The coupon option you added it also great (make sure it’s unique) as people might see that and head straight for the website not following a URL link. You’ve also got the issue of people telling friends who never saw the social post and using the code. 

Ultimately what matters is you’re measuring an ROI against your advertising spend. If it’s a good return on investment then it’s a good sign this influence is your right audience. 

~Closing~ 
It’s all fair and well paying someone for their audience but what you want to be doing is taking their traffic and making it yours! 

At the end of the sale or through the sales funnel you want to be capturing their email details and getting them into your database so you can market to them instead of through the influencer. 
Keep me updated
Solid tips. Thanks! The main issue is that most people are way too lazy to do all of that each day. At our agency, we call it the "i'm tired syndrome" Most of our clients just simply don't have the time or don't know how to get started. 
Real-world experience
Marketing and computer science
Google University
Most people in digital marketing that I know or are in my networks, went to college for a completely different field. Marketing in most colleges is more in the traditional sense, which can be somewhat helpful but will nowhere near prepare you for digital marketing. Communications and computer science will help a bit, I went to school for both. 

But most of the experience in digital marketing is diving in yourself, taking the free Google exams and HubSpot exams. There are one-off programs and other online schools that you can get more knowledge from too. 
Just major in Business and learn everything you need to know about marketing from Google University, YouTube videos, marketing books, and real experience.
Communication 
Screw college bro, this is way better https://indemandcareer.com/idc-new-sales-webcam/
Self - Learning
Google offers training and certification for free.

[https://landing.google.com/academyforads/#?modal_active=none](https://landing.google.com/academyforads/#?modal_active=none)
I agree w/ @shirrapwns. I started w/ Google academy courses & upon completion, you will get a certification & become a partner. Take the AdWords fundamentals & analytics course 1st

I would also like to mention that there are a lot of credible YouTube vids you can watch but the best experience is hands on
Use Neil Patel Blog. Also, create some campaign from your id after reading that blog.
This is where I started to really understand Google AdWords. Unfortunately, some of the info he gives is a little out of date or not the best practice. 

https://www.udemy.com/the-ultimate-google-adwords-training-course/

Still, it's a great place to start. 
Academy For Ads!
What would you consider an expert? I know I'm by no means one haha. I'm 19 and currently work as an assistant for an agency remotely but have a private client as well. Would a digital marketing expert be knowledgeable in every field? SEO/PPC and on various platforms? I agree with you though, I definitely don't call myself an expert but I see many who know even less than me and talk themselves up to get easy money with clients who don't know better.
I am not a digital marketing expert, honestly. I am a Virtual Assistant - a worker - an executor to implement your creative digital marketing plan. I am with you. :)
Regulation? Not possible. What every human needs to do is pay attention to actions, ignore words. 

In politics, in sales and marketing, in every aspect of our lives: filter out verbiage. It's empty air and meaningless. Only actions speak truth.
I've seen this particular situation before. One of the issues I've noticed from experience for example is that a company poured a tone of money into lead generation/advertising but their strategy and ad campaigns were in need of serious improvement. For example do you do A/B testing on your ads. Do you use google Analytics event tracking/tag manager to try and figure out what people are doing on your website at the microscopic level. Have your written an E-book that you offer to people if they sign up to your newsletter. Do you hold home improvement webinars. Then after you do all these things do you try and measure the results. Essentially what I'm trying to say is from experience I've seen companies spend quite a bit of money on lead generation without actually measuring that process and analyzing the hell out of it. PM me if you have more specific questions.
Have you done webinars? You can pre-record a webinar/how-to session then promote it as content. Get people to sign up for it by providing their email and then create lead nurturing content such as a blog post highlighting the uses of your services/products. 
I think a better question is why aren't these many channels providing you leads? Maybe look at your current campaigns, or have an expert provide an audit, and work on what you already have going, instead of trying to stretch your marketing efforts further. 
I've worked a lot in this vertical over the years and here are a few things that work well for me in property/construction 

Remarketing with FB lead gen ads

Run a referals campaign on FB using your email lists/customer match ie: Get a $xxx gift card by refering us! (Works best to segment past clients in database)

Adwords RLSA and bid on top competitor brand names after a user has visited your site. This shows they are in market and generally brings in quality leads.


Hi

You can use LinkedIn for Lead Generation, it can be very useful and the leads you get will be perfect. But for generating leads from linkedin it has a small process and should be followed. You can also use some tools via linkedin for lead generation

Digital Marketer HQ is pretty good: http://hq.digitalmarketer.com/

It's hard to know where you are - 7 years experience doesn't necessarily mean anything given the speed at which things change, and how slow some people are to develop skills.

That said, I think their courses have something for all skill levels. You start with the easy stuff, and by the end you feel like you've gained at least some expert knowledge. 

Marketing Conferences, specifically the ones designed for Agencies might lead you to some better marketing mentors or strategies.

What else have you tried?
I would highly recommend you check out Udacity. The courses are very hands on. The courses the come time mind are: 
1. https://www.udacity.com/course/google-adwords--nd124
2.https://www.udacity.com/course/digital-marketing-nanodegree--nd018
3.And if you want to get into more complex stuff you can read up on advanced google analytics https://developers.google.com/analytics/
4.Safari books has advanced google analytics educational videos: https://www.safaribooksonline.com/search/?query=google%20analytics&extended_publisher_data=true&highlight=true&is_academic_institution_account=false&source=user&include_assessments=false&include_case_studies=true&include_courses=true&include_orioles=true&include_playlists=true&formats=video&sort=relevance
You might want to improve your analysis skills. I recommend the Simplilearn's advanced web analytics course. The instructor is Avinash Kaushik, one of the most renowned professionals out there.
Freelancing is hard for digital marketers unless you have some good experience or knowledge under your belt. I for one, work at an agency and have only dabbled in to freelance as it is very competitive.

There are several areas of digital marketing, creative, branding, SEM, SEO, prgrammatic, etc. From your comment that you're into photography and cideography, maybe you could get into the creative side of digital marketing, e.i. learn how to use photoshop and create logos/designs.

In terms of profit for freelance, it depends on the area you're in obviously, but for example, I have billed $100 p/h (AUS) to clients. The job was for writing copy for a website. 
Freelance digital marketing has opportunities, but I would say the SEO part of digital marketing gets the most freelance work. On many freelancing platforms you will notice that there are lots of SEO freelance work, so I would start with SEO and then SEM, and though it is competitive, focusing on a niche will help you succeed. What do you mean by platform? Do you mean the digital marketing platform?
Here’s what I have been using
Ataama for my domain
Leadpages for a landing page builder
Getresponce for my autoresponder
Clickmagick for my tracking

That's good that you can do photography and videography. As, you mentioned that You are doing freelancing for photos and videos for the companies which is nearest to your home. See i suggest you that you can sell it on online sites or applications so that you can earn money for your photographs and videos and also take an order for photography and videography.

Here are some suggestions regarding your questions:
1) We are using YouTube, Instagram, Facebook & also twitter for promotion startups, product sales and hotels.
2) Sorry, We are not using Auto-responder so we are not going to that topic.
3) They have different different policies so you need to research on it.
Let me know if you want more details.
[removed]
Just keep in mind that this is not an easy field to break into, especially on a freelance level. It will take considerable hard work and patience to start seeing growth and profits you can live on. 

1.    What platform do you use?
I use social media, SEO and PPC for digital marketing. 

2.    Auto-responder - does that usually come with the platform/program? 
Not always. But you can install plugins to enable auto-responders to your programs or platforms. 

3.    What is the average profit and is it worth the hours to put in? (Obviously, market something that people want and need)
Average profit varies depending on your industry/niche. But if you are serious about your project and keep a tab on the latest trends, digital marketing can bring in profits. 

I'd also recommend checking out [https://blog.notifia.io](https://blog.notifia.io) they have around 600 Growth Tactics to grow your company 
[removed]
I think you can do it. You know how to self start and you'll be good at picture related stuff and have some material you can use. 

I'm sure photography is a good background to have for something like instagram marketing. 

You'll have to learn about a bunch of different things. I'd start with the google or facebook 'ad university' programs and go from there. I'd also start learning to write copy.
Yes absolutely 

I have transitioned from a design background, now head of a digital agency.

Best place to start is your existing clients. Build out some campaigns , try and get better results every month (use good results to argue for more budget 😎😎😎 ) - go from there.

Reddit, google, YouTube 


Yes! You have the eye for great visuals, and because users and audiences are demanding more visual content, i think it will work to your advantage.
You can do it with any background man I was a union carpenter at 21 and now I'm 27 and a CMO with 6% profit share of a digital marketing company that generates over half a million a month. I have no college degree I taught myself one thing at a time. Knowing html and css helps same as navigating a server back end but the best skill to have is learning new skills and also very important is working very quickly, so automation and outsourcing solutions should also be at the forefront of your mind. Also takes a lot of time man I mean you really have to be interested by your work or you just simply won't do it enough, not many people have that last trait and trust me it's the make or break factor in this industry
AdWords is the way to go. Enlist your products in the best Product Price Comparisons sites (this worked perfectly for me).
Both Facebook and email marketing are great tools. Besides these two, you can leverage other social media channels like Instagram and Pinterest. Both of these are amazing to promote your clothing business. 

Running giveaways on Instagram will increase your brand awareness and grow your community’s size. Make sure every email subscriber follows you on Instagram. Remember customers’ birthdays and send a coupon with your birthday wishes to build your brand loyalty. 

Use Pinterest to show off your products, run promotions and show customers wearing your products (with permission of course.)

Leverage holidays and weekends. Run promotions to capture customers’ attention as customers are in the mood for shopping during holidays and weekends. Create a blog and post the latest trends, gift guides, and style guides on a regular basis. You can also post reviews of your previous customers. Plus you can use the blog and your site to run promotions too.

You can also offer to guest post on fashion blogs in return for a link to your site or some other acknowledgement of your business. For more tips on sales prospecting, check out this [article](http://www.lusha.co/resources/lead-gen/sales-prospecting-10-tools-5-killer-tips-gurus). 

Golf bloggers and key influencers on social. Look for those who tweet / post often about gear rather than swing tips etc. Send them some samples and ask if they'd be happy to wear one for a photo which they'd post. It *might* cost you something but you'll only know if you ask them to do it first. 

AdWords can work too, but keep an eye on negative keywords and try to avoid relying on broad match keywords. 
What type of Facebook ads are you running? 
Ya, I would be interested to know what type of Facebook campaign you’re running. If you’re running the wrong one Facebook is not able to optimize to get people to where you want them (which is a converted sale) I’m sure this will be some easy tweaks. 
I'm running four Facebook ads optimised for traffic (two different split tests) and when I run the retargeting campaign I optimise for conversions. I am also running a carousel Facebook ad optimised for traffic using the professional pictures of my products with an invisible mannequin.
You should be running google PLA’s. They have the low cpc’s and relatively higher conversion rates. For that. You’ll need to upload your product feed into a google merchant center account and then go into AdWords and create various campaigns. You set a bid and you let google do the rest. No need for keyword monitoring. 

If you’re not monitoring your web traffic through a google analytics tracking code then you should start that because it’s free. It will tell you more about the type of people that are reaching your website (or if they actually are people) 
Following articles may help - 
http://www.speakinglamp.com/blog/integrated-marketing-a-branding-solution/

http://www.speakinglamp.com/blog/raise-your-brand-with-seo-strategies/
Can you ask your old corporation to remove your old profile?
this might be a bit of a crazy suggestion but why dont you ask them to remove it?
If you create buzz and inbound links for your new business it should over time move higher in search results. Focus on your PR, social media, blog, and partnerships, and SEO will follow naturally. Buy Google Adwords in the mean time to make sure you're on top of search results. (besides everyone else's point about asking your previous employer to remove the old page.)

I was thinking about it and then I went to all of the sites they were working with and most of them offer free courses. It is more work to put a curriculum together yourself but you can get all the info for free
it's worth it if it gets you serious about digital marketing. It'll give you a foundation, if you don't have one, and then it's up to you to build expertise in the individual fields of digital marketing. I've found that committing to something that you've paid for, gets you more serious about it. I'd go for it if you're not an expert already. 
What are you trying to do? 

- Are you attempting to get a job?  Digital marketing degrees/nanodegrees can definitely help you get an interview, but we're going to need to display a deep understanding of digital marketing.  I recommend going to Warriorforum.com and begin answering questions.  Get into the habit of being a quality authority and eventually you will be. Don't be afraid to answer questions you don't initially know the answer to.  It will require research, but this habit will make you more resourceful, which is the ultimate skill in this industry.  Also read Scientific Advertising by Claude Hopkins, and Ultimate Guide to Adwords by Perry Marshall.

- Are you trying to close clients?  You either need real world case studies that prove your worth, or a deep fundamental understanding of the customer's needs, a nanodegree isn't going to mean much, but certifications do look pretty on your website, and can boost credibility *slightly*.
The major digital platforms have really great training available for free online (Google Academy for Ads, Facebook Blueprint). It won’t fill in the basic marketing fundamentals (basic understanding of messaging, positioning, targeting, media & creative) but it will teach you the tools for free (and I like the training directly from them over probably 20 different paid programs I’ve seen over the years—they can’t keep up with the constant changes to the platforms like FB and Google themselves). 

The best thing you can do is get yourself some live data and experience. (Google offers a free demo Google Analytics that is actual live data from their online storefront if you’re coming up short there.) 

I learned a ton by helping out some non-profits with their websites and some basic marketing. Learn Google Analytics for starters, get it implemented on their site if it isn’t already and tag up some activity (they probably have email campaigns they aren’t tracking properly or robustly). As you get better at analyzing and understanding site traffic, it will help you to understand the right traffic you want to go after—then it’s time to experiment with some paid Facebook and/or search or GDN. So many great causes out there and they’ll almost never turn down free marketing help.

I hire for digital marketing roles all the time—the #1 thing I look for is evidence of curiosity and eagerness to explore. If you’ve taught yourself the basic platforms because you wanted to or had a side hustle you learned to market on your own, you’re getting the job over someone who just spent the last two years keeping the lights on in a mature search account and managing a content calendar at a big company. I can teach you anything else, but I can’t teach you to be curious.
What platforms have you learned? 
I'm late to this thread, but I was in a very similar boat. First of all, it's NEVER too late. I made a very similar shift when I was 28. I was stuck in a sales career path that looked like it had no end in sight, and I wanted to get out. The only thing I had that was definitively marketing related experience, was my Bachelors degree in Marketing. Other than that, all of my work experience was in sales.

How I got out was I began focusing on getting more marketing credentials. I got certified in Hubspot, but also Google Analytics and Google Adwords. I put those credentials on my LinkedIn profile and certainly highlighted them on my resume. Also, don't discredit your current work experience. As an insurance agent you probably understand the fundamentals of sales, the sales funnel, and how consumer think and make decisions.  This is invaluable in digital marketing because those skills show you understand people's buying behavior.  I'd reflect that on your resume as well.

Finally, the biggest step is getting in the door to marketing and scoring interviews. After countless failed attempts at the traditional application process of applying to positions online. I decided to go rogue. I used my sales techniques to find C-level email addresses for all of the agencies in town. I then wrote each one a personalized email with an outrageous Email Subject Line that was impossible to ignore. Then in the email I quickly call the reader out for opening my email, and in a modest and funny way boast about how I can get people's attention which is the first step in marketing. This email that went out to 20 or so agencies, landed me 3 interviews. From there I was able to score a position as Business Development and Management for a digital marketing agency's video production studio. Not my ideal position, but it got my foot in the door. From there I quickly started making connections and bothered nearly every "digital marketer" in the office to give me pointers and let me help them with projects. Since then, I moved on to be an Account Manager and strategist for another agency across the street.

TLDR; Get certifications, Leverage and interpret your current work experience as marketing experience, and get creative when reaching out for job interviews. Also, get your foot int he door and make quick connections.
At 29 (Three Years ago) I took a $10 course on Udemy about Youtube and then applied to Freelance jobs on Elance.com now (Upwork.com)
I was Freelancing for two years and doing my own projects and testing on the side as well as continuing education. Now I work at a Full-Service agency. Good Luck!
I've been learning by doing. My first client took a chance on me, and now I just got my 3rd client. You likely know more than I do...
Hubspot academy, Google certifications/academy and Udemy. Udemy has a lot of Sales, so sign up for their emails and wait for a class you want to cost around $10 instead of the posted multi hundred-dollar price tag.
I would recommend taking the Google Adwords certification class. It takes about 2-3 hours to go through all the study materials and the test isn't too hard. It's a perfect foundation for learning different types of digital ads and SEO. After that, I'd take the Google Analytics course. With those two alone, you'd be very qualified to help any website / client improve their SEO. 

Some great tools to use are: 
1. Moz Chrome Extension for SEO
2. Hubspot Blog
3. Quicksprout blog
4. Neil Patel Blog
  
Tried Hubspot Academy?
Personally, I attended an MSc last year. Great sources are Google's and Hubspot's online courses - as mentioned above - which are free. There is one called Digital Garage by Google that might be helpful too. 
Basically i learnt from youtube and udemy too. All the learning is useless if there is no practical hand-on. A bit here and there, hard to focus as there is always this problem of info overloaded. There are DM courses selling 2-3k which I refused to pay. I advise to specialize and focus on one area you are really interested in and then move on from there, it will be easier this way rather than dabbling on all, which can be quite massive.
Udemy is a very good place to learn better and faster. It has also a lot of free tutorials. Lynda has excellent tutorials too. I agree with you about YouTube tutorials (it's too hard to find a good tutorial). 
I learned Adwords the hard way but with great telephone support from AdWords. Learn from step by step tutorial from videos, not from books.
For me, it's best to first, learn how you learn. I'm not great with books and rote teaching methods. I'd rather be thrown in at the deep end so I can learn to swim than read a book about swimming techniques. 
Some people are the opposite. Knowing this will speed up the learning process. 
I used to work at a media agency in London so did a lot of courses courtesy of the IPA (Institute of Practitioners in Advertising) 
Currently doing a copywriting course at the College of Media in publishing.

 
Apply for some freelancing jobs online, start small and grow from there.
If you got a client then your client give you one website for doing SEO, it's best chance to learn practically SEO and digital marketing. 
Otherwise, you can create a blog on WordPress and be doing SEO for that blog, it's another way through learning SEO. 
Without Practically SEO is nothing...

[removed]
[removed]
Today, Internet marketing, or online promoting, is advancing into a more extensive blend of segments an organization can use as a methods for expanding sales - regardless of the possibility that your business is done totally on the web, mostly on the web, or totally disconnected.
In Digital Marketing Course, you'll learn how to grow your business with social media marketing, search engine optimization (SEO), content marketing, email marketing, pay-per-click (PPC) and additional and the way to convert the incoming traffic into paying customers.
Before the finish of the course, you'll have defined your audience, set up a website and driving traffic to the major marketing channels.
Learn Digital Marketing Online and Grow your own business from scratch!
Yes there's a lot of things you have to do (all running at the same time) while you also have to be always updated with any changes and news. But this is probably what I like most about Digital Marketing. It keeps you motivated.
At my last agency, I was managing digital projects for dozens of clients. Our team had too many active clients, and we’d be putting out fires constantly. That, with keeping on top of the ever-changing platforms we use to execute campaigns, made for some tough days. We always made it happen, but it never felt like we were a well-oiled machine. Many of our clients were other agencies with traditional marketing history. They never seemed like they had it 100% together either. 
I'm aspiring to get into Digital Marketing, I've around 6 years of traditional sales and marketing experience. I'm self learning topics in Digital Marketing, What will be the most effective approach for getting a DM job?

Also want to know something about the work culture in DM.  
There are so many moving parts. That it is easy to slip up. Eg, running over budget, making a small error with huge consequences like in a UTM code... 
It's keeping track of everything effectively. I work for a small start-up, I'm the sole marketer, but once you find a rhythm it gets easier. But getting to that part when starting fresh is always a bit of a challenge. 
You can also check some of the certifications by Google and Hubspot. The videos in these courses are quite well.
Best advice is Study up and practice on your own; build your own ecommerce website and grow it. Digital marketing is so broad that you really need to specialize in one area and grow from there. Areas you could make a career out of ... social, sem, SEO, analytics, ux/web design, content writer, email specialist. Once you specialize in something you can start working on other things and pad your resume. 
Digital Marketing is here to stay as traditional marketing becomes more a thing of the past. I think the best way to learn is to dive right into it, there is no right or wrong approach it is more about being able to "self-teach". I found this guide to be really helpful: https://jumpseller.com/learn/how-to-sell-online/ You can find good courses on platforms like udemy. Hope it helped!
Do you use instagram? If yes, How many followers do you have? 

There are many website/portal/social media will allow you to start marketing and there are many companies allow to work on affiliate marketing, if you want i can share more details where you can get some knowledge. 
There're several nice and free courses out there, you can find very interesting things! I also follow some blogs that are cool, they have weekly newsletter with practical tips worth seeing:
https://www.kaleighmoore.com/newsletter/
https://coschedule.com/blog/
https://saijogeorge.com/best-marketing-tools/#
Mozblog Hootsuite blog buffer blog ignore their self promotionalism

youtube

coupons for udemy courses sorted by category.
https://www.real.discount/search-page/offer_cat/digital-marketing/

beware serial marketeers 
niel patel 
tai lopez 
anyone that is preaching about income growth 

any video that talks  about boosting x or y and then promoting a Saas or any kind of promotion.

its worth listening to #garyvee , but take into account he was moderately privileged more than most.


Some good answers here: https://www.reddit.com/r/Entrepreneur/comments/7poge0/online_marketing_absolute_beginner_where_to_start/
You Should Join Classes In Digital Marketing.
Or Start A New Thing By Searching On Social Media Marketing , SEO 
Neither. Get your AdWords, Analytics, and Hubspot certs. Then get your Facebook blueprint.
Thank you. Looking into those right now. 
Hi! I took the GA course and I found it to be worth it! Only if you are a total noob, like Google Analytics scares you noob. Coursera is good, udemy is also good. As for coding, learn the basics of HTML and CSS... but don’t go to crazy, you can find debating do it for you on fiverr that charge nothing. Plus, doing detailed work drains your creativity IMO... 


A lot of my previous interviews we discuss strategy with clients. Implementation is important but that varies a lot among the different industries and can be taught. 

It really depends on what you are interviewing for as digital marketing have so many disciplines. If it's B2B and lead generation then I would ask them to design a campaign to drive email signups and how they would execute it. I would provide them the fake business name, the industry, and the customer base. I would provide them a campaign goal since it's an entry-level role. I normally would expect the candidates to ask these question if they were in a higher role.

I want to see their critical thinking ability here. There are too many times when a candidate has these great big ideas but they are not thinking deep enough to flesh it out. Who are they targetting in these emails? Are they thinking about the customer journey and marketing funnel? How are they incorporating the strategy into other marketing channels to amplify the campaign? Are they creating a custom landing page for the campaigns to increase conversion? How will they measure KPIs after the campaign? I am also extremely data-driven so I look for candidates that create strategies with that in mind. Marketing isn't always about ROI but it's good to know they think about it as your clients care about that.

Don't go too hard on them! 
Depends what the client profile is like and what the position is. Just general Digital marketing?
Why not have a conversation with them, asking them questions like, "how they approach digital strategy in general"? While their answer might not be right on target, it will at least reveal their thought process to a certain extent.
I ask “technical questions” that can be answered in many different ways to gauge how holistic their understanding and approach is.

And example of this type of question would be something like, “what is the difference between a conversion in Facebook and a conversion in AdWords?”

The worst candidate would say something like “X set it up so I don’t know”
An OK candidate would probably note that they use different tracking codes
An average candidate might note that the default conversion windows are different (and that you can align them more) and setup for each is quite different
An above average candidate might note that Facebook recorded actions are linked on an FB ID which helps deduplication and for cross-device, etc

If the candidate goes as far as explaining the restrictions (whether business or technical) of FB/AdWords conversions and how they have tackled or would want to tackle it... then you’ve got a winner.
Much like everyone else, I think the answer to your question starts with clearly defining the role. Is it primarily an account management position? Is it a dedicated search specialist? Social? etc. etc. 
I also agree with camboramb0, that critical thinking ability is more important than there immediate understanding of implementation. One helpful exercise is to give them some materials on a real client, and ask what there approach might be to meeting a specific KPI. 
For more mid-level positions you could ask about reporting strategies. How might they show CLIENTS the value that the agency brought them. For this, a lead gen + b2b client with a long sales cycle is a good choice. There aren't always easily attributable conversions to reference. Seeing how a candidate fumbles with answers on the fly can indicate how they'll interact with clients under pressure. 
Just some thoughts. Good luck in the hiring process!
I haven't read them all but I willing to bet most have already asked for clarification of what you mean by "Digital Marketing" as there so different areas and practices of digitsl Marketing.

Some will suggest tests like "create a mock campaign" but with what tool? And what dummy website? or what dummy list? - areb you going to somehow create fake traffic to test performance? Are you going to provide a budget for your fake ppc campaign? lol

To create a simulation excercise will be entirely too much work for you to even create a suitable environment to test and analyze. Digital marketing is not like a  graphic design or dev role where you can assign a project and expect to see results.

The best way I feel is to create a problem and ask the candidates to write either a blog post or white paper/e-book of some kind to address that problem.

This way you'll get an understanding of their thought process, their approach to leveraging various marketing tools, and have a clearer understanding of their competence in my opinion. 

Ofcourse theres the risk they can just google the content and copy paste so being unique and specific about the problems and challenges will be key, but i think this will be by far a better approach than trying to create some sort of simulated digital marketing excercise.

just my two cents. I wrote this on my iphone, please excuse any typos/grammar errors.
A test?! I've hired a lot of people now, and I've never given them a test. I do have a matrix of questions I'll ask - categorized by things like "Cultural Fit", "Leadership", "General Technical", as well as skillset questions categorized by "Email Marketing" etc.

Note that these are NOT mine, I don't have original sources to cite, but I save these as I find them from various websites:

1. Between videos, ebooks, blog articles, photos, podcasts, webinars, SlideShare, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Pinterest ... there is a lot of potential content we should produce for inbound marketing. How do we do it all? (Look for candidates who tell you that you should not do it all -- but that you should start with the content that is most important to your prospects and customers, and focus on that. They should also have a plan to talk to your customers and prospects in interviews or surveys to figure out which social networks they use and what type of content is best for them.)

2. Referencing a sample: What was the objective of this piece? What was your role in developing this piece? What was the business result of that piece? How much time did it take to execute this project? Did you come up with this concept? Or was it a collaborative process? Why did you choose this image (or binding, or color palette?) What was your thought process, and how does your creative process work? What was the design challenge? How did you resolve that challenge? What results did this piece achieve? What was the client’s feedback, and can you supply contact information for this client so they can give you a reference? What people, processes, and/or budgets did you manage when you did this project?

3. Draw a funnel on the whiteboard showing 10,000 visitors, 500 leads, 50 opportunities, and 10 new customers (or any other numbers you think are interesting). Now have the candidate pretend they're the CMO for the company, and they have to decide what the marketing team should do to improve their marketing. (Push to pick one part of the funnel. Looking to see how the candidate thinks about the funnel, if they have an intuitive sense of what good and bad conversion rates are, and if they understand how the funnel steps are connected. You also want to see if they understand which different tactics you can use at each step to improve that particular step.)

4. We have a new product coming out in three months. What would you do to launch it? (This'll show you how well a candidate understands all the different tactics of marketing and how to tie them together into a holistic plan. It'll also give you insight into how creative they are and whether they can come up with new and interesting ways to do marketing.)

5. What has your biggest achievement been at ___? What results there that you produced are you most proud of? (You can then also ask the same question for other jobs they've had. You're looking for someone with a pattern of taking things from X to Y--with Y being bigger/better/greater than X.)
Go on fiverr and people per hour good luck!!
You're welcome, I think these platforms take patience and tenacity :)
Service pricing is very subjective. The price is whatever someone is willing to pay. I have clients that pay retainer and monthly, I have some that just pay commissions (I prefer those), but without a reference point try the numbers you came up with and see if they work. Always be experimenting.

As for getting clients there are many strategies. Mine was as bog simple as it gets. I went cold calling in person to businesses. Once I got a few, they gave me local referrals, then I started having clients come to me from all over.

If you present well and are confident, don’t underestimate the power of face to face interaction.

Another way would be to get some freelance gigs as another said, build a portfolio, start a blog on that portfolio, and attempt to capture inbound traffic. Ideally in the end most of your new business will come from referrals. 

Sorry for long post but this stuff can be complicated. Good luck and any other questions, just ask.

Edit: Oh and you might be able to strike up a deal with another marketer on something like LinkedIn wherein they refer you to clients that are too small for them to take in exchange for you referring clients back to them who might be too big for you to handle at whatever experience level.

Never be afraid to reach out to people, worst that can happen is that they say no or ignore you.
[removed]
This is a good question. I avoid amazon like the plague, so I don’t know, but I thought I’d give you a bump. Tracking where particular sales come from is tricky sometimes. Particularly if you do a lot of soft marketing across a large variety of channels.
While I don’t know of any tracking pixels for Amazon. Something you can try is sending users to your site, tagging click outs to the amazon listing and consider any lift in sales may have to do with your advertising effort. 

Needless to say, pretty much the only thing you’ll be able to do for the time being is track how much traffic you’re sending to the listing and if there’s any lift in your sales MoM. 
Tools:

Use hootsuite / buffer for scheduling posts
Filmora for video editing
Square for payment processing

I suggest you to increase your charge!
Don't sell your services cheap

For propoal template and audit templates watch these youtube videos https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rD9uwjQ_1dE 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LxLmzQVwYDw
what is the problem with your drop shipping site? out of curiosity.
Yeah. But Facebook isn’t going to continue with it.
I'm from Slovakia, which is one of the countries where this new "explore feed" is in beta stage. I can confirm that organic engagement dropped drastically for our clients and also sales from facebook.
[Should You Be Worried About Facebook’s New ‘Explore Feed’ Feature?](https://mavsocial-com.cdn.ampproject.org/c/s/mavsocial.com/should-you-be-worried-about-facebooks-new-explore-feed-feature/amp/) 
Didn’t the Explore feed got cancelled?
sprout social has a much better UI
I'd recommend [MavSocial](https://mavsocial.com), it's better than Hootsuite or Buffer. It has great UI and you can easily schedule posts on FB, Twitter, Linked & Tumblr. On top of that, you're able to check any responses from your accounts (like comments or messages) right from the dashboard, you would not need to open your social media accounts individually.

We've used MavSocial for our [Canada](http://edmonton-real-estate.com) & [Philippines](https://www.therealestategroupphilippines.com) Real Estate brokerages, and so far, it's been responsible for us closing hundreds of listings. It's that effective.
Buffer has a good user friendly interface. You might want to try that out as well  
May I invite you to checkout our product [RecurPost](https://recurpost.com). We are almost one year old (started Aug 2016) and have close to 10,000 active users. 

We offer a forever free plan that should be good for you to check us out. We currently support Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Google+. Instagram is currently in the works and should be launched next week. 

We not only allow you to post as per your schedule, we specialize in recurring scheduling. You categorize your updates into various libraries (my blogs, other people's content etc.) and then set a schedule for that library. Once an update has gone out, it will sit and wait at the end of the library to be posted again once everything else has been posted.

Thank you.
i use social pilot  - very easy and free
HubSpot 
Looking for something new also to use for multiple clients. Can’t seem to find anything that will do all the platforms I need (Facebook, Twitter, instagram, google plus, linked in, Pinterest). I don’t mind paying for what I’m getting just can’t find anything that has it all...
You can use buffer. Its very good. Even a free version have lot of features.
Buffer and Meet Edgar were what we transitioned to from Hootsuite. Both have user friendly interfaces, but if you're looking to schedule Instagram, Buffer is the way to go. Our testing method was to try out one account using the free option and upgrading once we worked with it awhile. 
Looking for a new option too. 
I use Buffer, which has a free version. But their paid version has a few solid upgrades and it isn't that expensive.

Outside of MailChimp’s own templates, I’d like to see some others as well. Some of their templates are a bit rigid.
[deleted]
I can probably do something for you-- pm the details or style you had in mind and I can give you a quote
I don't have a ton of advice here, but just one nugget: don't get hung up looking for benchmarks. You will never find the benchmarks you are looking for. Set your own after a couple months of running social media and search. Every business is different. 
Start slow, build the site before buying the ads.  Set up Google Analytics next to make sure you know the traffic and ad attribution from the beginning.  Set up a few ads initially from one or two channels (Google, FB) at low volumes and see how they work.  Get lots of data and show them you are working.  Get comfortable building them reports in Excel and every time you decide to change/grow build off of success every time.  Document it all, keep records.  Stay on top of ROI.  

Help us out. You say mom and pop store. Do they have to buy items in person? What percent is foot traffic vs digital traffic? Is your goal to get people into the store, or to shop online? What kind of store is it?

1. Consumer profiles? Sounds nice, but just ask the owners about their current customers. They know who comes to the store.
2. Social media marketing report? This comes later. Get the social media avenues up and running. Make them matter, or don't bother. 
3. What industry are you in? Get your ads to drive sales. Worry about benchmarks later. Sales speak to small businesses. What good is a click-through-rate if they don't see sales?
4. SEO for Wordpress? Yoast is the place to go. https://yoast.com/wordpress/plugins/seo/ 
5. You're talking about paid search. You can set up a geographic radius on your ads, so only people within two miles see your ads (or 30 miles if you're in a rural place).
6. The exams are great, but it's the knowledge behind it you're looking for. Give yourself some time. Make some mistakes. Share the mistakes with the owners so they know what not to repeat in the future. And good luck.
7. Impressions and engagements are nice. They are easily measured. But ultimately they don't matter. Sales matter. All the impressions in the world don't matter if they don't drive sales now and in the future.

I said a prayer for you. Good luck!


1) Creating a new website and blog that is SEO friendly takes time. I'd check out Moz for more info, they are one of the best SEO companies around https://moz.com/

2) I would recommend setting up a Google My Business account. This is great for Local SEO.

3) As for social media, you should build a content calendar so that you are posting on a frequent basis. Try mixing up the content so that some of it is original and some is from industry publications. Great way to build social relationships.

4) 100% get Google Analytics set up. The most valuable tool for any digital marketer

1) Right now I'm developing 2-3 consumer profiles w/ demographics and psychographic information ... I have 200-300 customer emails. If I upload that, can FB help me develop profiles based on previous customers?

Facebook has "list targeting". You can upload an email list to your Facebook Business Manager and then create a lookalike audience from that list. To find this, go to "Audiences within your business manager. Under "create audience" select "custom audience".

5) One of our objectives is that when someone Google searches our keyword, that people within our geographic targeting, see our ad and click on it site and end up calling. To accurately measure, I should get the company to invest in a phone # just for the Google Ad?

Google can create a phone number for your ad that redirects to the desired phone number so that you can track calls. 


Be sure your site content includes the towns/locations that are served by the company. Think of what people will search for, e.g., “toy stores in [town]”.

Order of importance IMHO:

Website content, optimized for SEO and responsive so it can be easily viewed on mobile devices 
Google Analytics /Tag Manager set up on site
AdWords once site is up and running
Email plan /blog
Local directories such as Yelp, Google Business
Social media (Facebook /YouTube pages)
Then start to think about other sources of inbound traffic such as Facebook ads, display ads in local media etc. 

Don’t overthink it. Do the best you can with the info you have and work steadily to execute. Google Analytics and Google Data Studio will provide most of the reports you will need. 

Good luck!
Start-ups don't have resources. They face a problem the book language calls 'liability of newness'. They try to make a dent in the market which, in most of the cases, is already saturated. I agree on two of the mentioned strategies in your article, viz SEO & Social Media, but I wouldn't really recommend PPC or email marketing since both of these methods sit well with firms that are established or at least have lived through their infancy stage. PPC is not very different from traditional ATLs, only that it's done over the web. As for email marketing, since you're new in business you don't have a lot of prospects or potential list of subscribers you can follow up with. 
.... In general very helpful article. Thanks for sharing.
Nice Post. I just want to add that, one should also be updated with what is happening in the industry.

Follow certain blogs or Twitter handles like:
https://twitter.com/50poundsocial
https://twitter.com/neilpatel
https://twitter.com/shoutmeloud
Great post!
You should number each tip. Post is confusing 
Guys, please, help me to boost social media sharing activity on my blog. I am boosting marketing and I’ve got a decent budget for it, still the sharing statistics are quite pessimistic. How do I attract more people to share the content from my blog page to users social media profiles? 
Intercom - I like their texts and find the information very useful.
Econsultancy - UK centric but overall I enjoy it an find it useful. 
Coschedule - mainly social media scheduling but good content
'Digital marketing' is super broad to be honest. 

When you say Adwords certification, is that in all of categories? I think the obvious step is to have all of those certifications (I believe to even get the initial certification you need one of those five. I have it in display.)

If he's interested in media buying and trafficking, then DCM and DBM are very useful to know and be certified in. There is a huge need for Ad ops and traffickers in general. I'm probably bias being that I work in Display and Analytics. 
Can't say it's certification but there's a need for programmatic training. It's the next logical step in being a well versed digital advertiser.
If you google it you can find it, but you need to put in a custom code element into page and put the code in like you  would the back end of a site. 
Why not both?, you can shoot a video for your yt channel and extract the audio and add a few edits to it (such as podcast intro).

You are practically producing one unique piece of content and leveraging it to make a podcast out of it. It shouldn't be too much "extra" work doing it this way.

Btw, i've thinking to this myself. :D
Cardinal path. 
What`s your Facebook Page link?
Depends on price and the performance of your creative assets.

If you have a high ctr% most of the time you can get a better cpc by buying cpm. If your ctr% is low then cpc is usually better.
It depends on what your goals are, who you are targeting, etc - rather than platform. At least in my opinion, I was in this same dilemma sometime ago and began to use a tool that helped me better track such predictions that I have with regards to each. Give FOCUUS - a performance marketing & tracking platform - a try. It'll provide you answers to these questions. It's free so it cannot really hurt for testing. Best of luck!
Depends on which keywords you're targeting. Also, clicks are useless. You should be targeting conversions. I could give you a million clicks right now if that's your performance metric.
CPM Pricing model is mostly used for branding and direct sales. 
Whereas CPC generates more volatile revenue than CPM. 
Getting more clicks depends a=on many factors like high CTR, good budget, ad relevancy. It just can't be determined based on the pricing choices.
Non-white people? That sounds weird (racist).
Most struggle for a long, long time. There's a few reasons for that but the main thing is - why you? Why should they answer you? They have marketers contacting them a few times a week, so you're going to need to stand out.  

I'm fascinated by Steven Holen, the world's leading expert on what Mastodon bones look like when broken by humans or naturally. Yes, really. He has an expertise That precise. That's why you need to do.  

Do you have any expertise now? How specific is it?
I recently had a two week interval between full-time jobs. Interestingly, I got two clients by doing job interviews. The jobs lasted the two weeks, but I had the option to keep them going. I didn't want to take that route yet, as I'm still developing my skills, however it had the potential to be a good base.

My suggestion would be to look at job applications online. These companies have the need, maybe you will be able to fulfill said need in a 10-20 hour a week basis, and get paid a premium. 

Best of luck!
God. I landed my first client after 1 month of relaunching our company. Thought I "made it," getting paid $125k base with possible bonuses for increasing the revenue and private valuation. Then uncovered fraud after my first month there and got terminated for it. 

Marketing is a spec (speculative & specification) business which requires months of prospecting, building relationships, and PUTTING CONTENT out about your approach, beliefs, work, and so forth. That was my biggest mistake. Shying away from social media for and about yourself is the worst way to build a business.

We truly live in a world where people want to research for themselves, not be told by you how good you are (directly). So you should fully expect, if you don't have past work or a network to get you business quickly, to spend 3-6 months working people and adding content to your library of work, and another 3-6 months to close a deal.

Minimum 6 months (if all works well) and average of 12 months. Don't feel bad if it takes more like 18 months, but if it does take that long, that client ought to be a BIG one. Hope this helps!
How do you generally go about trying to get clients?
Yes this will affect your QS. Google reads text in the HTML to understand your page. If it can't read the text your score will suffer. 
Marketers are setting more an incentive on purported "soft skills" than at any other time. This can be seen everywhere throughout the digital marketing world with numerous employers hiring for identity sorts and "impeccable fits" for their organizations. There are currently various advanced organizations who have gone up against the casual yet uber-quick paced Silicon Valley style approach (where representatives are required to act naturally helpers, cooperative people and marvelous table tennis players all moved into one).

Here is a datasheet which is self-explanatory & shall guide you to be, as you say “AN EXEMPLARY DIGITAL MARKETER”.
http://www.credforce.com/spotlight/resources/storm-the-digital-marketing-career-turf

Read a paper copy of UnMarketing.

http://www.unmarketing.com/

Scott was ahead of his time. Lots of others out there but this book really helped me wrap my head around digital marketing and social media.

I don't think it's over saturated, if you're good. Their are lots of cheap companies that don't bring results. I think that you need to provide a really good service, though. Just making some generic social media posts doesn't cut it anymore. Really valuable and entertaining video content or articles still work. SEM and SEO still matter. Apps, too. User interface and experience is more important now than ever. 

The big bucks are in UI/UX and SEM. 
I would say if you are really interested in learning digital marketing start with learning how to deploy PPC campaigns via Facebook, AdWords and Bing Ads, with these you will learn how to drive traffic to a website as well as conversion rate optimization (CRO) in order to drive macro and micro conversions. To get this experience first learn about it through signing up with Google Partners (this will teach you everything there is to learn about SEM through AdWords), and repeat this process with Facebook Blueprint and Bing Ads. The next step after reading the guides from Facebook, Bing, and AdWords is to get certified from each since this will build credibility. In addition, learn how to build websites via WordPress and maybe other CMS platforms like WIX and Drupal. 

The first alternative to getting experience is I would reach out to your own network of friends and family who have small businesses websites, where you can offer to manage their PPC accounts for free; in the event that they don't have a website for their business, I would suggest offering to build one for them via WordPress.

The second alternative is to essentially create an e-commerce website or a small blog via WordPress. Through this, you will be able to learn about SEO too, as well as deploying PPC campaigns via Facebook, AdWords, and Bing in order to get traffic to your website and possibly get more people to sign up for a newsletter you may have. 

A third option you can consider is after getting certified in all three: AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook; apply for an internship (even if it's unpaid) and get real world experience this way. 

Therefore, your best bet would be to either go with the first alternative or third one since when you are applying to bigger agencies for digital roles (PPC and SEO), you will have a track record on your resume. I would also consider working on the strategy end of digital as well such as digital media planning or digital investment since these roles tend to be easier to get into and also by having experience in running PPC campaigns via Facebook and Google AdWords, you will bring more value than candidates who never had any digital experience since you will have a firm understanding of how these digital platforms work and it will help you learn more complex areas of digital such as programmatic and mobile advertising. Also, I would even consider digital Ad Ops as well since there is a lot of relevancy in trafficking the campaigns via a pixel (something that you will learn in Facebook and Adwords PPC campaigns). 


BTW I am currently in digital media planning and from having this experience in running PPC campaigns on Facebook and AdWords, as well as obtaining certifications in Bing Ads and Google AdWords, it helped a lot in understanding digital and helped me sell myself during the interview with what I learned from my previous digital internships. 

Hope that helps!
Marketing as a whole is saturated. If you want something new and scarce, study something else. If the prospect of having to compete with a few hundred other applicants for an entry level job scares you, you should definitely not switch.

Either way, though it's cliche, I truly believe in T shaped marketers. You need to have a basic understanding of every digital marketing (and preferably the traditional ones too) specialization, to understand how they fit together, and then pick one or two that you are most fit for to go deep on. Which ones? You won't know until you've tried them. What have you tried, what do you enjoy doing so far?
Like others in this thread, I don't think the profession is over saturated with GOOD people. It is, however, oversaturated with mediocrity.

If I were you, I'd take some classes in coding, as well. Strong technical chops in html, css and JavaScript will give you a huge edge and make you more versatile, as you'll actually be able to do technical SEO, which often requirese fundamental coding knowledge.

The great thing about digital marketing is that it's applicable in every industry. As time goes on, more people will find themselves online for more time during the day. 

I say get specific with your specialty within digital marketing. Do something that sets you apart from the cheap companies that automate paid ads or outsource them to an unskilled non native person. 

It's not too saturated - not at all. In my local area, about 20% of businesses actually use social media in a strategic way. About 5% actually use digital marketing and paid ads in a strategic way. Most businesses today got their start by relying on word of mouth and SEO, and this is STILL WHERE THEIR TRAFFIC COMES FROM in most cases. 

As our population grows almost every industry will grow, and digital marketing will become a necessity as people spend less time watching TV and more time on their phones and computers. You need to present yourself as a way for businesses to bridge the old gap to a successful utilization of the digital landscape. 

I originally started with SEO, then realized through trial and error that specializing in Facebook ads is extremely useful because of the current landscape / capabilities of Facebook. 
I don't think it's oversaturated at all. There are so many different avenues, products and services that all can be assisted with GREAT digital marketers.

Google Adwords is a free course that offers study guides and quizzes online. Not to mention that it's highly reputable in the digital marketing field. 

Being a digital marketer makes you cutting edge to what is now passe in the marketing field.. like display ads for programmatic campaigns and native ads versus the old school spammy ones. I write about new ways to target customers in my blog. I hope it's helpful to anyone who checks it out. 

https://depictionsmmcc.com/display-ads-for-programmatic-campaigns

Also- Do what interests you/what you love!
Digital Marketing is now becoming mainstream so it has become clear to 90% of businesses that they need to do it in order to survive. This has left a huge opportunity for people in the industry to capitalize. Even traditional marketing companies are having to adapt. 

I would learn a lot about customer personas and journeys. Digitalmarketer.com is a great resource for training. I would recommend checking out their blog and podcast. They have a monthly subscription to learn key topics and they also have certifications you can take. Their Customer Value Optimization training is where I would start. 
I am currently enrolled in a digital marketing course, and my professor has his own digital marketing consulting firm-- a successful one, at that.  He makes it seem like not only is it possible to have a career in digital marketing, but that it's an easy field to have your own business in.  He said it's a field that keeps growing and growing, so I would assume that the job market in digital marketing is pretty good. 

I think if you like what you're studying, you should go for it.  The best idea is to market yourself.  Your expertise and skills are your brand, so you must build that up.

As far as specializations go, I would say start our with SEO, but have a lot of knowledge in other areas.  Becoming Adwords certified is always a plus and can help you stand out from others when applying to internships, jobs, etc. I recently finished my Adwords certification, and I'm really happy I did.

I'm in the process of writing a blog that I'm hoping will help college students and other beginners in the field to become more familiar with marketing topics. It's in its beginning stages right now and needs a little work, but let me know if it's something you'd be interested in reading!
Best to figure out if the competitor is providing a full package. Maybe you can get in with great service or fresh ideas. Usually you can get a "line item" of some sort, even creative production. Also it can help to develop a relationship with somebody in the company for a while to get a sense of what they need.

Nothing is better than a spec which demonstrates how they can generate more revenue, though. Everybody likes that! I'm in marketing too. Nothing beats LinkedIn connections and engagement though. 

Also does your firm have a content strategy for inbound? Then the prospects can find free value from you which your competitors might not be. Depending on the location of you, your prospects, and competitor, you may be able to play the local card.

Or conversely you may be able to be the one in a less expensive market competing in another territory. What's your company's main focus or strength?
$999 is such a ridic amount of money.

I would consider it, if it was cheaper.
I just don't want it to be some Udemy-like/level course that's way waaaaayyyy overpriced.
It's a new program. Looks pretty good and I've heard good things. I'd definitely do it if I had the cash right now. 
Either your expectation management is not good, or your screening of clients is lacking. Considering your other post, she seems to be randomly demanding results. Either way, look into the growth hacking sites to find tactics for driving email signups fast. If you're starting from zero it'll be probably be specific landing pages with adwords runnning against them. 2 weeks probably won't cut it to get a sizeable list, but at least you'll have systems in place that will work towards that goal.
Competition on social > paid promotion > link to clients website > have an email sign up to a newsletter as part of the entry process > run for 1 week. 

Not the best quality leads, but quick and easy. 
You could run a webinar.

This would obviously be dependent on the topic and the clients business.

Promote the webinar via paid social (fb/linked in probably) linking to a registration form & landing page. 

Edit: also, potentially push back on the timeframe. If the client wants a decent list from scratch without paying then in my experience this will take longer than a few weeks.

You could also do about paid promotion via someone else's list/site.
I've made lists of thousands of emails the...old fashioned? way. For example, I was prospecting once (horrible demographic, but good example) Ned & Breakfasts; in PA, NJ, DC, and NYC. So I googled, "bed and breakfast, Pa." then opened every Link, scouted websites, took basic notes, and put email address with info in excel.

Then I sent a single email to each one, copy & paste message that changed to each one slightly to make it semi-personal. Done the same for other categories and had better success, like architects and beer distributors. 

I learned a lot from doing this, like how to diagnose a web site quickly, and compare competitors for analysis. Also, learned that a message like that needs to be targeted to a specific service like "web design," instead of "marketing services." 

I also learned there are a lot of web design companies that specialize in industry like schools, or architects, or whatever, and sometimes they can offer your services like SEO or content, etc. 
Aim to understand both and you can compensate when the middle-man (Facebook/Google) fucks up your water-tight plan
Both.  Don't limit yourself.  
Both. But career opportunity wise, more companies need their SEO and SEM in order than they need their social media up to snuff.
SEO/SEM analytics is instantly measurable financially, and most businesses keep score in dollars. And whatever you know about the topics (SEO and SEM are two very different things) will be yesterday's news in 6-12 months so you have to continuously evolve to stay on your game.
Seo SEM definitely! 
Photoshop + Giphy.
send him an email and simply ask him?
You can Google online gif Creator. There are many that do it for free. Here's one: http://gifcreator.me.

Get all your images, arrange them, set the time and done.
For video, Giphy is my go-to. It lets you archive easily, make private if needed, and most importantly it works great with Facebook/Twitter and it gives you the option of a source link when clicked.  
  
For stills, you can learn how to use Photoshop's Timeline tool to make them fairly easily yourself.
Adobe photoshop+uploaded to giphy,
 
https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/how-to-create-animated-gif-quick-tip-ht
The only way to make it is to add value to a company either as an employee or contractor/consultant. If you came from a relatively unrelated industry or focus you have to demonstrate what transferable skills you have.

No one really cares about your education, they are more interested in how what you know and what you can accomplish will make them more money, be easier to work with, or add reliable results. 

Focus on the client's need over your own and go balls to the wall in pitching your services. Never stop. The new world of marketing is fast paced, and only the strong survive. Be on LinkedIn, go to networking events, and always believe you're the best for the job.

Demonstrate your value in the very way you pitch yourself. 
Agreed with /u/MADEmattEB. What part of DM do you want to get in?

Sounds like a focus on Big Data may suit you. Mining and managing data to reveal customer insights and utilizing analytics to make decisions and prove marketing value to the client. This ties in profitability, revenue, customer retention, and customer satisfaction. 

Something worth research.
Have you ever thought about approaching inbound marketing? Inbound is the first fundamental shift in marketing methodology for the digital age. Instead of reaching out and invading a potential client’s digital space, it challenges you to create engaging, relevant content which is easy for desirable prospective clients to find and – crucially – is valuable to them once they do. Feel free to read more about it here, http://www.prodo.com/what-is-inbound-marketing/
An interesting read all in all. Well done.
It says the page can't be found :S
My experience with Wix has been that it is very difficult to get thorough conversion tracking set up. 

If you need event tracking for submission forms, it is fairly difficult and call tracking is not supported, as per the support team.

Even basic conversion tracking, like adding conversion pixels to headers, is not as easy as other platforms. If you have any other options, I would strongly advise to go with one of the other major platforms (e.g Wordpress, Magento or Shopify potentially if E-Commerce).
Like to start up from scratch, or learn more about analytics? 
I'm doing the Google Analytics Academy courses at the moment and there's one called ecommerce analytics you might be interested in.
I tried a bunch of e-marketing and e-commerce stores, nothing worked the only thing I benefited from was analytics. I'll tell you what I tell everyone who wants to explore E-commerce. Open a Shopify/Woocommerce account, and sell something online. To be honest that's the only way you will learn is by trying. Shopify, have a vast amount of knowledge about e-commerce. They cover everything from photography, to copywriting, and marketing. Good luck.

how about be honest about the job your posting.

you're not trying to get someone to open the click bait title, you want them there for the content.
I'd like to connect with you if you are hiring a remote / freelance assistant in digital marketing. I'm looking for new projects at the moment . 
I would search through job descriptions in similar industries and pick and mix points that are  relevant to your business.
Sounds like a job for more than one person, definitely. 

You've proven that these efforts drive value so maybe you can hire a partner? 

Not a deputy mind you, but a partner who can take responsibility for a full category or two from you here. Paid vs organic is a good split in duties, as is production vs promotion/analysis.

Also I think that most companies do too many email newsletters. They're less valuable than people think. Replacing them with automated personalized notifications or a bigger monthly newsletter might be more valuable and less expensive 
Hi there! Good luck in your search!

Good marketers know that the core focus of any business is the customer. Here, the interviewer or company rectuiter is, in a sense, the customer. So, the objective here is to tell that person how you can help their company and how you can support their mission.

I recently got a job at a company that helps build businesses. I took care in the interview to express that I have become intensely focused on becoming a business strategist, that I'm reading books to this effect, and that I would be proud to be part of a company with a core mission of helping businesses succeed.

So, I suggest looking to the company's mission statement for inspiration. For ClassPass, a good answer might say something about how you believe that health and mental well-being are very much connected to one another, and you would be proud to be part of any company with a mission of keeping workouts fun and exciting. You might also mention how the industry was in desperate need of disruption and are impressed with ClassPass's ability to create a new model in a very crowded space. 

A caveat: Any answer you give has to be genuine to you. Interviewers can see right through BS.

A few other things...

It's going to be tough to get in at a place like Facebook or ClassPass with little experience. Unless you know someone who already works there, your resume for any given job is probably up against 200+ others, and only 10% of those applicants actually have the skills and experience to get the job. So, you then have to shift your focus to gaining skills and experience.

Here's what I recommend:

1. Start smaller. There are dozens of smaller startups out there looking for candidates with less experience (they know they can pay a little less if the candidate needs some skill development). You can learn about these companies at meetups and tech events. You can also gain experience by volunteering with friends' companies or other small businesses.

2. Do what you can to improve your skills. There are so many online courses these days, and many of them are free. Start with Google Analytics training, AdWords certification and the free HubSpot training programs. This will be a clear indication of your interest in digital marketing, which you can add to LinkedIn and discuss in interviews.

Hope this helps!
Well you can be honest and say that you admire their work but are mostly excited and curious to learn from a high growth environment. That's enough.

Answer the question directly and succinctly then pivot to talk about things you DO know about like your interests and curiosities.

You'll be fine.
It seems like you're overthinking it past what the company would be interested in hearing. Simply saying something like 'I know as a customer how important digital services are and I want to make it easier for customers' as you have said would be enough for an entry level position. The why obviously explains the 'what' as you've listed to be you like marketing, start ups etc. I would give the why do you like these some thought even just for self knowledge. 

For example I would say I love the field of digital marketing as you can create a great environment for customers to engage with the business and see positive results from decisions you've taken. I love being able to fine tune aspects and prove that digital decisions were worthwhile for the business to take. Having done none of this yet, you can tailor an answer just to say that this is a field you've been interested in due to the potential for X and as you've done so much self training you are looking forward to putting it to practice to benefit a start up. 

Some advice for any interview would be to keep everything as honest as possible and remember that you are looking to see if they are a good fit for you as much as the other way around - just remembering that may take some of the pressure off of you. If someone grimaces when you mention your year of experience either you didn't get enough experience for the role or you don't want to work for that type of person anyway. Keep going though because if it's something you really want then you will find a way in eventually. It took me a year after graduation to find my first role. Hope this rambly answer somewhat helps. 

*What may be a good idea is to turn up to the interview and leave them will a tiny 'portfolio' of something you could do for them if you were to be hired. For example, 'I've written a blog and a few social media posts if you would like to have a look at them' and take a couple of copies. If you want to really impress them with analytics that probably no other candidate would then I would happily help you get started and point you in the direction of worthwhile blogs you can read - feel free to message me. 
Archive the chat thread.
There's an algorithm in place by Facebook that recognizes the customers conclusion by means of some variation of "thanks". Sometimes a little Facebook message will pop-up and ask if their response was a conclusion in which you can click "yes/no". That Facebook message doesn't always pop-up, but it will typically always recognize the "thank you" variation. They probably just use the confirmation question to confirm different responses. 
I don't think I've ever been sold to so hard. Neil Patel can sell on 20 levels at once.
I fucking love Neil Patel. 
Though the bookish knowledge is not going to help you much in Digital Marketing, but to build strong basics, this is my favorite list of Digital Marketing Books:

1) **Convert!: Designing Websites For Traffic and Conversions** by Ben Hunt

2) **Global Content Marketing** by Pam Didner

3) **All Marketers Are Liars** by Seth Godin

4) **You’re My Favorite Client** by Mike Monteiro

5) **Marketing: A Love Story: How to Matter to Your Customers** by Bernadette Jiwa
The more I stay in it, the more jaded I feel from the daily onslaught of fake news, stupidity and spam corroding social media, but examples like this remind me why I got into social marketing in the first place. Such a cool "case study" and unique usage for the platform. Glad you got Ernie back!
Awesome list!
Very Informative thanks a lot 
Very Informative thanks a lot 
Maybe you need to outsource to somebody to do a worse job than you do!!! How much do you want to pay me to be average!!!
I find conversion on FB to be so low that I only use it for impulse purchase products and brand awareness. 
Doing a  comp or offer via fb would increase conversion. But maybe not the traffic you want
Need more info on the click rates of the ads.  How many people are clicking but not converting into a sign up?  If the ads are getting clicks, but not converting into signups, you will need to adjust something on the sign up form.  Its either turning people off once they arrive, too difficult to sign up, not enough incentive to sign up, etc.
I find conversion on FB to be so low that I only use it for impulse purchase products and brand awareness. 
Doing a  comp or offer via fb would increase conversion. But maybe not the traffic you want
Try using the Facebook lead ads form 
Simple start is to list some existing agencies and determining what qualities after similar and which are different. You can make a "strategy canvas" (Google it. It's the only redeeming factory of the otherwise useless book Blue Ocean Strategy). 

One that is done you will know a booth more about the market. 
Is this 2012?
Sprout social. I use crimson hexagon 
Ok, so there are a ton of platforms out there that do this kind of stuff. It really comes down to the type of analytics you want and if you want to use the platform for content management and engagement as well as analytics. Team structure is also important. Is it just you or do you want to have other people have access to the system?

If you just want to track followers, which is kind of meaningless BTW, you are probably better off just building an excel sheet and manually inputing the data on a regular interval. 

Assuming you are interesting on more detailed analytics here are a few (very robust) tools:

Agency and client side I have used:  
* Marketing Cloud (Radian6)  
* Sysomos   
* Nuvi  
* And a bunch of smaller ones at one point or another

Sysomos is probably my favorite, but it can be expensive. I love them as a tool for doing market analysis. They are just overkill for my current needs. 

I currently use Nuvi. Its real strength is awesome easy to digest reports that can be easily published to .pdf and sent to the "powers that be.". Simple and clean interface and scaleable team management structure. 

Hope this helps.
If you just want to track follower growth, you can just use socialblade.. dunno if they have fbook in it yet but has all the others. 
Hootsuite is great for that!
Crowdbabble is working on YouTube analytics now and they won't be ready until spring, so I can't help you there. It does have the other three plus LinkedIn.

If you only want to track that one metric, I might suggest just doing it manually. Seems crazy to pay a monthly fee that includes hundreds of metrics if you just want the one.

Keep in mind that analytics services can only track your follower growth going forward, due to API limits. Once you sign on, they will begin to count your followers going forward. But getting historical info is tough. 
We did a huge review process of these. Engagor and TrackMaven are great but also on the pricier side and do a lot more than follower growth. Much more basic is True Social Metrics which is also great in its own right. 
LOL the market is not saturated quite yet my friend. You might have to take a job at a company you don't necessarily love to get some experience and build your resume, but after you do gain experience in digital marketing, there are plenty of jobs to be had in the industry, at cool companies to boot. 

Your Dad simply does not know what he's talking about (with all due respect), but thats okay. When I try explaining my position (Paid Social Media Specialist) to my 60 yr old parents, they don't quite 'get it' either - but the reality is, the working world they once knew no longer exists. 

You don't need to build your "personal brand" to work in this industry. Just build your resume like the rest of us. And enjoy knowing that while many industries are dying, digital marketing has only just arrived. 
Work as an unpaid intern for 4-6 month on a stipend are get great experience or get an entry level position out of the gate and you'll be fine. There are lots of jobs, starting pay is kinda low but within 3 years you'll be much higher if you push yourself.
I understand where you're coming from, I graduated in 2011 with my bachelors degree from a well-respected school, it took me until this September 2016 before I found a well-paying job in digital marketing sales at an ad tech company. Before that I worked in finance, not at all my field, or a position that I wanted to be in. I live in Rochester, NY, so not exactly the advertising capital of the world. Every marketing/ad agency here wanted 5 years of agency experience, and there were 100+ applicants to 1 open position. It wasn't until I went back to school and was able to put a Masters in Marketing (in-progress) on my resume, that i finally got a foot in the door. Depending on where you live, it definitely was not easy for me. 
How much work experience do you have? 
Digital Marketing can pay little or pay a lot. It all comes down to you. Most of us are closet nerds and not big on the people interaction aspect... but that is usually taken as a good thing. The more awkward we are the more clients tend to trust us. No one wants a sales guy. Marketing should not be something you get into for the money though. If you do then you are sure to have a rough go coming out of school. If you are in it for an adventure or because you have a passion then you will do better. This industry is vein, yes that is true. The pretty little white girl does turn heads. I think that is more because pretty little white girls are usually the opposite of nerdy. However an awkward Asian will always be the more trusted authority over us pretty little white girls. That is not racist it is just how our industry is. If it is your dream then own it! You will find that it is an incredible adventure as long as you are willing to work for it. 
If the media buy if over 100k, dm me.

If it's less then try one of their ad tech partners they may have the infurstucture (sp) to support you
Here is my two cents:

You are 100% right that this is a poor way to go. I run multiple social accounts in the technology and previously entertainment / finance space. If you want some direct help, I'd love to be an unpaid social media advisor, research your best channels, etc. 100% free. 

Why? Because I love RPGs. I was 7 when FF7 came out and I haven't looked back since then. 

I think we can assist each other. 

PM me if interested and we can talk more directly about all of this. I'm passionate about RPGs and would like to experience the world of game marketing first hand. 

I hope I can be of assistance. 

-Mike
I have worked as a Digital Marketing (DM) intern for a startup. I used to crank an average of 8-9 hrs daily and this excludes time I spent learning stuff on my own. 

I don't believe DM particularly offers a work-life balance but you do get firms that offer a work environment that encourages work-life balance. The startup I worked for did that. 
I'd say at the higher levels, it's your typical executive / professional job...get to the office earlier, stay a little later, and be part of strategic guidance. You have a seat at the table, so to speak.

However, if you have desirable skills, mostly technical, you can have a solid career and demand much more with respect to work life balance. 

The work life balance sucks for those who:

A. Want to become a CMO / make their entire world about marketing.

B. Those who don't have a strong technical skill set (analytics / coding / forecasting / web dev skills etc.). 

At least this has been my experience. Just as an n=1 statement, I used to work with this gentleman who was a very competent front end developer but also knew SQL and digital KPIs / metrics inside and out. He never complained about work life balance. 

The more valuable you make yourself, the less you have to work at being replaced...until you get to the strategic level (C-suite seat at the table stuff). Then, you're baked into the system, and you also become very expensive and difficult to replace.


Measurefest is coming up in November (www.measurefest.com). It's a CRO and analytics event, £150 a ticket and put on by the Brighton SEO guys (another event, thta I'd definitely recommend - FoC and only an hour from London each April and September). 
That was a really good piece of content. So many articles are usually just fluff pieces on content marketing. This was a technical showcase in the context of a business problem of which you offered solutions. We need more content like this, not the crap where everything is "enchanted" and "magical". Thank you so much. Will be tuning in for more.
Interesting read. The pop up was annoying - how it comes up before I can engage with the article. 
Thanks for this :)
This is the most ridiculous sales pitch I've seen in a long time. 

If it was easy everyone would do it and hiring experts as a startup with nothing more than an idea is so unbelievably wasteful. 

Ideas are everywhere and worthless without implementation. 
The percentage of persons who navigate from a particular page on a website is Bounce Rate.
Interesting concept, could serve well in addition to / instead if email gates
If there is a way to remove the "no thanks just let me view" button this would be a nice viable tool.
Targeting will play a big role in the success of your Facebook ad campaigns where you're trying to generate awareness and actions.  Know who your target market is, and not just age and demographics. Build personas for the different type of customers you have (empty nesters, first home buyers, newly married, new parents, etc.), target based on them, and make sure the content is relevant to them. Facebook offers a ton of targeting options so take advantage of them and test them to see what performs best. Play with targeting by interests, behaviors, life events (definitely try life events), and buyer profiles.

You can also upload a list of your customers to Facebook and create a list of people to target who have similar characteristics. I'd still recommend layering some demographic and interest targeting on top of that though. If you have a referral program you could also market that to your list of clients to try to drum up some leads.

Also, in terms of downloading leads from FB lead gen ads, Zapier also offers a solution. We use this service and have it connected to our mailchimp e-mail list so the new lead is automatically added to our e-mail list and promptly receives their first email from us upon signing up for our email list. I believe Zapier is free if you aren't collecting more than 100 leads per month but if you are the next level up is still affordable.
I have done ads on Facebook for multiple projects. The only ones that seem to be successful are the lead generation ones. That being said, I do find success with retargeting ads. 

You have to remember for the most part people don't go to Facebook to be sold something. You can find groups of people that are trying to learn something and you can gather people that way if done properly.
In my experience optimizing for website conversions is your best bet if you're new to the Facebook ad game. Create a "squeeze page" lander with a custom opt in form for a nice little email list. Furthermore your ad needs some work, you want to create more copy and image variations rather than just the one so you can see what is working or not. If you want you can PM me and ill try to help on the ad side of things. IMO I'd write this --- TEXT: Are you searching for a new place to call home? Fill out my FREE personalized home search to find your forever home. Headline: Find your perfect home in Farmington (can play with this a bit)
New Desc: Join hundreds/thousands? of happy home owners who have found their dream home using this free personalized tool. 
Try changing Learn More to Sign Up since that's what they are doing and use that CTA in the copy too so people know what they are doing. Lead Ads > landing pages many times because they are straight to the point of collecting the info you want with a shorter path than clicking to website, loading website, reading website, signing up on website.

Possible also that targeting could be improved if you aren't seeing the results you desire.
A colleague of mine completed the course and certification and is a big advocate for it. He's currently performing digital marketing for a handful of sites so he's a big believer in all of this training.
Do they have an individuals pricing option available?
Is it worth it for personal development? Maybe. The good thing about any kind of course is that it presents it in a structured and coherent way. Even though all the material is out there and you can search for it, assembling it into a manageable structure is difficult.

Is it worth it for career development? I don't think so. Interview is king, to bastardise a phrase.
Which course specifically are you looking at?
I'll also mention that I did test the sitemap using GSC and the test found no errors.
Hmm that's a tough question. I think that AdWords already does this a bit, no? Like, if you have multiple sitelinks running, Google will run various sitelinks against each other for your ads. If you look at all the sitelinks for any ad group/campaign, you'll see which ones improved the CTR and conversion rates the most.

[Per Google](http://adwords.blogspot.com/2014/01/better-ads-via-better-sitelinks.html), "Pure A/B testing isn’t possible because each sitelink must point to different content." They also recommend changing sitelinks less often than you would copy for an A/B test.

Thank you for your analysis. You have provided really valuable information and I was interested while reading. However, I would like to add one more platform to your list. You might not be acquainted with it (https://www.retailecarts.com). 

As for me, it is a successful “all-in-one” combination of Prestashop, Magento and WooCommerce. Let me explain why. Usually it is very costly to buy 3rd party software. So, I have found eCommerce solution which is able to develop extensions by itself. 

Besides, I am extremely concerned about security and reliable hosting was my prerogative. SCE provided me with Hypersonic CDN which boosts the speed and protects my data. I like all-inclusive offers. Check these features if so do you.
I enjoyed your post and agree with all except one point; Not paying influencers. As a blog author and social media influencer I deserve to be compensated for my work and for the audience I’ve worked so hard to established just as everyone else deserves to be compensated for the honest, quality work they produce.

I am sceptical of this information. The sample size is reported at 1,907 adults which seems small to me. 

I had a quick look at LinkedIn.

If we take LinkedIn as an example, The Q2 2015 numbers for LinkedIn are estimated at 380 million users globally. 30% are estimated to be from the United States, so lets say [114,000,000](http://www.statista.com/statistics/272783/linkedins-membership-worldwide-by-country/) United States LinkedIn users roughly. 
Globally there is a trend of an increase of 16,000,000 members per quarter. If we follow the trend that 30% of those new monthly members are from the United States due to the previous precedent of growth since Q1 2011.
 
From these statistics it could be concluded that LinkedIn is in fact continuing to grow at a stable rate in North America. 

Also Reports mean nothing if you don't research a representative sample.  

I'm probably missing something though as I am only a lowly Marketing apprentice and am getting my information from [Statista.](http://www.statista.com/statistics/274050/quarterly-numbers-of-linkedin-members/)  
really good tools that could help us doing Digital marketing easier!.
Glad you like it, thanks for reading!
Go on?
Che? 
Absolutely awesome....genius mix of 2 of my favorite things in life
The downside I see to this is people's fear of being stalked. At a conference I was lead on, I had personalized calendars made for all the attendees where their name appeared on the photo of every month. Some of the attendees thought it was kind of stalky (but a cool piece of swag), like how could we know all the attendees. I got the attendee list names because my company was a gold sponsor and that was one of the perks.
TL:DR some people get creeped out by the thought of being stalked for personal info.
[deleted]
I think both Adwords and Analytics certifications will be necessary if you want to work in an agency setting, and will certainly help out if you are looking for a digital marketing job. 

You can prepare and take the certification test for the Google Analytics individual qualification here: http://www.google.com/analytics/learn/index.html (the test used to cost $90 but now I believe it is free)

For Adwords, this /partners response has a lot of the need to know info: https://support.google.com/partners/answer/3153810?hl=en

This is a great question and I'm glad you asked it as I too am looking to see what certifications are valued out there. 


SEMRush and Search Console, although neither will help much if the site doesnt rank for anything.
Google keywords planner
You can use Semrush, Ahrefs or Search Console get your analysis finding keywords gaps to get new keyword ideas or related keywords from your competitor
Moz will help you to do that... you have explorer by using that you can find out that
Blatant self promotion: We (Searchmetrics) can do that by a) looking at current rankings (including search volume, CPC, etc.) or b) actually analyzing the content in your page. Both URL based of course.

Apart from SEMrush, all of the solutions listed above support only one of those approaches.
SEMrush has an On-Page SEO Checker for discussing pages. It's in the Projects section.
The best thing to use is your brain for that. Plan the content on your pages around ranking for a primary keyword and 2-3 LSI keywords. I typically don’t do more than that to keep the topic focused. Also make sure you have at least 1000 words of quality content (no filler), good tagging, schema markup, internal linking, sub 2 second page load time, etc
Reverse image search on google is the first thing that comes to mind.
What is the content? Video, image, blog, social post?
Images: Google Reverse Image Search, TinEye

Text: CopyScape
SEMrush has a plagiarism checker with their SEO Writing Assistant tool.
sendgrid
Mandrill, mailgun
Contact Support via your Ads Manager. They much more likely to help people that spend money on their platform, sadly. They're almost always helpful, and if they can't be they will get someone to email that will be able to help.
I worked out a way to do a complete name change. Rather not post it publicly so PM me and I'll tell you what I did.
I don’t know for sure, but I think when you have more than 2000 fans (or something) you actually need to contact the Facebook support.
I help agencies/businesses who want to outsource their link building, here are my tips on how to build backlinks:  


1. Find websites that are relevant to your client that are high quality and authoritative. For example, if your client is selling CBD oil, try and CBD/Cannabis related websites.
2. Find the emails of these websites.
3. Create exceptional content for your client's website, for example, 'The Ultimate CBD Oil Guide'. 
4. Reach out to the websites you found and encourage them to link to your 'resource'. If they say no, offer to create a guest post for their website that would be suitable for their audience and include your clients link in the post.
5. Make sure any link built using guest posts are 'do follow'.
6. Be prepared for most sites to reject your offers or ask for a publication fee.  


In addition to the above, I'd recommend creating relevant directory listings for your client and a few blog comments to diversify your links.  


To be honest, I'm unsure if you know enough to be providing SEO a service and are currently undercharging the client for SEO. I'd recommend looking for a company to help you out on this.  


What other questions about SEO /link building did you have?
If you have a limited budget, then you should start building backlinks on high-authority sites. What do I mean by that? Profile links, web 2.0's, social bookmarks, article submissions, etc.

Backlink from high-authority sites will give you that backlink diversity for SEO and will give you a nice link juice.

If you don't know where to start, check out **RankdSEO backlink database**. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of high-authority websites.

There are more than 270 guides at the moment. And a list of 1400+ websites that accept guest posts.
The basic backlinks are your local business directories, but these have its limits.

Outside of that, almost free way is to build PBN for yourself. But this is difficult and time consuming to setup.

Another way to do it is to ask for a guest post on a popular blog with high DA. But they will most likely say to cough up expensive money.

So the best way is to actually buy links of high TF 15-25+. But I would avoid fiverr and all these marketplaces because they really do not work

PM me and I can provide you with these if you wish
Good question. Off-page SEO is tricky and complicated, and I don't understand a lot of that stuff myself.

  
What I can tell you is that if you're doing any content stuff then a good way to get SEO backlinks is to pitch your content to bloggers, journalists and freelance writers. The object is to pitch them your content so they write about you and link back to your website.

&#x200B;

Try researching a list of 100 or so press leads and pitching them with a personalized email sequence. Lead with telling them how you found their work and how much you enjoyed it. Then suggest a mutually beneficial collaboration which results in a backlink to your website.

&#x200B;

Highlight how they would benefit from the exchange, and use the words "you/your" at least 5 times for every time you say "me/I". Make it about ***them***.

&#x200B;

Think of it like a mad lib. It'll look something like this.

&#x200B;

SBJ: Hi {{first name}}, I  found your article on {{publication}} and want to collaborate!

&#x200B;

Body: Hi {{first name}},

&#x200B;

I found your article {{article title}} on {{publication}} and I love your coverage of {{topic/beat/coverage area}}.

&#x200B;

I was wondering, have you ever noticed how {{this trend is happening}}? I wrote about this on my blog, and it may be a good resource for you when you do your next article on {{topic}}! Here, check it out at {{link to your blog}}.

&#x200B;

Would you be interested in using it as a reference? Let's set up a time in the next week and we'll talk about it!

&#x200B;

Cheers,

&#x200B;

Your name

{{Your blog/company logo goes here}}

&#x200B;

Hope that helps!
I’ve been drinking, but no.
Yes easy to tweak for cheap CPMs but who cares if those aren’t converting 😌😌😌 it’s about creative, ROAS, scale, car, etc so again, drinking but no
Just showing CPM is REALLY fishy. Generally, to reach more apt customers you have to spend more. My guess is they're blasting their ads worldwide with little to no regard for who's seeing it, which drives the CPM down, but will definitely also lead to terrible other KPIs.
Super opaque and red flags shooting up for me. Proceed with caution, or better, don’t proceed.
Yeah umm, no. 

Each campaign has different goals (pipeline build, conversions, yadda...). It could be growth in a particular market. Success in that case wouldn’t be CPM at all. 

Walk away. Or challenge them on their metrics.
1. Make an online store

2. Make the store look professional, relevant to what you’re selling, and not trash(optimize it the best for organic seo. You can watch YouTube videos about that.)

3. Use Fivver if you need to make a logo or a banner

4. Use your money and put it towards fb/ ig ads. 

5. Write blog articles about your niche

6. Experiment a lot and test on what marketing campaigns are worth it

7. Wait. It takes time to see results

8. Keep learning about strategies
Why don’t you get supermetrics?
Yes, you can use Data Studio to generate reports customized to your needs regarding the performance of the paid channels. If you don't want to manually update the DS sources on a daily basis, you can use Supermetrics connectors, I believe that they have it all. But if you don't have or want to invest any additional budget to get Supermetrics, you can manually update a Google Sheets file on a daily basis with the needed data across your paid channels.

&#x200B;

I wouldn't rely on Analytics only especially if your goal is to check the performance in terms of leads & cost per lead - usually there is a pretty huge discrepancy between Analytics data and the paid platforms. Use Analytics to check sessions, new users and bounce rate (you have a direct connector in DS) and aggregate the conversion-oriented results directly form the paid channels (manually in Google Sheets or with Supermetrics).
Dont do it. They are phishing for free advice. Give them enough information to prove you know what to do but dont tell them specifically. They likely are doing this to dozens of "prospects" with no intention to hire them. I have been through this before, essentially providing thousands of dollars worth of information for nothing. Offer to do an evaluation and create a marketing plan as a consultant but dont do it for free.
Compare Facebook best practices with what they are doing on a campaign and creative level.
Is it a new domain you want to analyze or the existing one? If it's a domain that has been around for a little while, try using MOZ Link Explorer:  [https://moz.com/link-explorer](https://moz.com/link-explorer) \- free tool that gives you all sorts of info about inbound links, domain authority, etc.
Google. And hit and trial.

Experience is the only real teacher. Jump into it. 

Also, take up a project and give your best.
I’m all about podcasts. People teach stuff on podcasts that you’d typically have to buy their courses to learn. Some of the best educational resources available.
Hello! I teach social media if you'd like to email me - laura@thatbritishchick.com
Buffer has a great list on what you should be learning. They even link to some classes.  I'm on mobile so I dont have to link. But if you search their site it should be on there.
If you want to spend a bit of money, I think about 2-3k Oxford Uni Business School (SAID) has a on line disruptive digital marketing course which is meant to be good.

Else Udemy!
I'd reccomend you to start with google certificate exams. There is great content for you to study and the exams are free to do! Not only you get certified officially by Google, but you can learn all you need to know at a decent level in Google Analytics and Google Ads. Facebook has a similar program/exam for advertising in the platform (Facebook & Instagram)
Definitely something you could do with an Arduino or Raspberry Pi.
Maybe you're referring to smiirl, try googling it
Regardless of your field/profession, it's never a good idea to quit before you've found another job.
Always a bad idea quitting before you find more work, barring unhealthy circumstances. 

How old is the leadership? Sound like they begrudgingly throw money at content marketing because people told them they had to. If they are looking to hire an unpaid intern to supplement your role, they don't value what you do. So what **does** the company value? Generally, revenue, sales, transaction and customer lifetime. Those are stats a leader understands. Start tracking and reporting your successes in how they affect the earnings of the company, how your efforts create user growth that can be tracked to transactions, and how much loyal users can be expected to add to revenue over the next few years with the proper nourishing through your media role. Make it simple and truthful.

&#x200B;

Also, working with strategy and helping drive the direction of the company using Analytics could be a boost for you, and you may want to try to take some of that responsibility from the agency. My last gig I earned my stripes by stepping in and calling bullshit on several reporting errors the agency sent us. They weren't lazy but they were completely wrong on several important reports that were driving our decision making. Managers and owners hate looking at  reports that they don't understand, and as an intermediary I became essential (until leaders stopped listening to managers and went belly-up).
Work on the certifications \[google ads academy / digital garage \] and then search for a new job. 

My instincts tell me that they won't promote you since they are actively looking for new unpaid interns.
I got my first job at an agency with zero ppc experience through sheer persistence (3 interviews and 2 tests). Just apply and don't take no for an answer.
Not Succeeding is not Failure..True Failure is when close yourself down too early in trying things and work hard..

You gotta try and try until you freakin' get it..

If you really wanna leave it...Leave it after achieving it.

Cheers!
It’s always better to find a new role whilst you are in a job. Wanting to leave to better yourself is more marketable to new employers.
You know what, forget the old way of thinking "don't quit until you have a job". I have quit several times before having a job, and put 100% of my energy into finding a better fit. As long as you have the savings to do so, and the drive to actually make sh\*t happen (in your case, sounds like that is advancing your education), I would advise you to take that leap!
Talking from experience Do not do MBA in Digital marketing also the coaching institutes who provide certifications are not worth at all. If you really interested in digital marketing then dive in practical go buy domain start blogging or you can start on blogger for free then after some experience you would know what to do."certification won't help" knowledge and experience will certainly do. Goodluck
Just go and get a job. You’ll learn as much in 3 months as you did in three years doing your degree.
How much experience do you have?
as someone who has been in this field successfully for over 11 years I'm not even to sure how but digital marketing degree would be relevant. 
I literally have a complete sea change in my business model at least once a year.

I would tell you that I can count on one hand the number of people in my industry that earn 7 figures or more that have digital marketing degrees much less a Masters degree.... But I would have to chop off my hands because the number is 0. 

I know more than I actually have GEDs..

Digital marketing is more about problem solving, initiative and persistence.... Yes you need to be somewhat bright and be able to think creatively... The rest of the skills you can learn online mostly for free or find a mentor..... Or if you want to go to the agency route were you just handle people's basic needs without needing to get them results..... You know setting up SEO basic email basic web page then just go for working for a company that does that and learn why you get paid what they are doing..... Hint hint mostly offshoring all that work and closing accounts and keeping on top of their offshore workers....

When you are really good at digital marketing you don't work for somebody else because you have the skill position and all you need is an internet connection and a computer to make money....You don't even need a computer to public library will give you them for free for a week at a time....

Edits.  Sorry typos talk to text.. you know what i mean..
As someone who went to grad school before really diving into digital marketing, no it's not worth it at all.  

I'd wait until you reach a point in your career where a masters will help you get the next promotion. That day probably won't ever come, since this is a field judged by results more than credentials.

IMO, on-the-job experience is what's most valuable for you right now. Internships, entry level marketing jobs, etc. Build a portfolio, get some professional references, find out what you like to do, and earn some money.
 I received my Master's last October. I think it's totally worth.
What do you want to do with it? Ecomm director? yes.
I would think hands on experience would be more valuable. Also, you can get google certifications for free at ad academy.
No way. Get some experience and then go get a masters focused on Analytics or something along those lines. It will be infinitely more valuable. But whatever you do, get a few years of experience first.
I would suggest that you do a "techy" masters, data analytics, IT, web dev something like that. 

In my opinion MSc is definitely worth it.

I am just about to start MSc IT as it gives me more insight into related programming. Moreover, I live in a city with 4 large universities and a huge college. There are more than 500 applications for every marketing internship which makes it almost impossible to get and MSc can get you just a little bit farther. 

I also plan to move to Canada and MSc gives me more points in express entry but that's just an added bonus ;-)

Anyway, all the people I spoke with who did MSc told me that it is definitely worth it (UK here).
Digital marketing is one of the hottest topic of discussion these days because of the growing interest and heavy usage of different social media account by billions of users.

After completing my graduation I always wanted to open my business, but as I entered the world of business I found that every businesses are setting their business in different social media sites, and are enjoying the outcome of doing so. This thing grabs my attention and then I opted for doing masters in Digital marketing first, to take my business online.
In our marketingcat opinion, no, it's not. Better take a short course, start an internship and learn along the way.

Practices and tools change in crazy pace, and there is no second to acquired experience - yes, it will be more demanding and you'll probably feel a little in a fog. But you can achieve a lot in 6 months in terms of knowledge and understanding.

&#x200B;

Good luck Meow!
If you only want to be a cog in the wheel of a proctor and gamble brand or some similar then the 100k in extra debt might work out. Most of the successful digital marketers I know either have no degree or an irrelevant bachelors like psychology or music, and definitely no masters.
Depends on your desired career path. If your goal is to run a $100m departmentb for a major brand than it would help you achieve that role.
Traffic is a result of people visiting your site (of course), so you must be giving them a reason to visit! 

Start with your broad networking circle, and recommend people check it out. If the content and design is good people will return and Google will start improving your rankings. 

The best and quickest way to get people visiting your site is utilising Google Ads (search or display predominantly) and leveraging keywords/SEO/targeting to display ads to your ideal customers, attracting them to your site (this method is a lot more likely to lead to legitimate customers and grow your user base, ultimately that’s business: gotta spend money to make money).
Focus more on SEO then do google ads, facebook ads and other social platforms if you can't do it yourself hire someone
Hopefully you have Google Search Console connected to your website. If so, look at the query information, and specifically look for queries where your site has impressions but the average position is > 10 (so on page 2+ of search results).

If the queries are keywords you'd like to generate more traffic for, build up the content on your website about these topics. Specifically make sure you are offering valuable content around those topics and answering the questions (if they are questions) people are searching for. 

Since you are already showing up on page 2 or 3 of search results for these keywords, there's a likelihood with some work you could rank higher and get more traffic from them.
Are you testing from the app on your phone or desktop? I’d imagine adding another redirect with linktree would only make it longer.
It's a lag across the board, because it's waiting for the browser to open and process the request. In my experience linktree doesn't fix the speed issue.

Android is slighty better than iPhone, but an option is to get a quick landing page built just for IG that's pretty minimalist to keep your load time even lower to make up for the browser delay.
Hey 

I can give you 4 services to make your small business into a BRAND
Pm me
Happy to help. Pm me?
Hey!

I’ve done some consultancy with brands before.

Drop me a line.
If you can, spend a bit of money on paid advertising. Even just a couple of dollars per day, if you do it well, will get things moving for you. 

Good luck!


Go with your own ideas. Create title optimized title for your videos and may use just some keywords. Keep good thumbnails. Importantly, obey youtube's copyright and community guideline rules.
..
Best of luck...🤓
Aside from the basics of tags and titles, you need to think deeper. 

Create an incentive to share the video or tag friends. (Include a prompt like "Tag a friend to see how they'd solve this puzzle"

Do outreach to get traffic back to you. 

Get people talking about your channel

Share your videos with other people in the industry. 


You'll grow rapidly if you focus on these aspects.
Yes and yes. People seem to forget that google ads \[search\] are tailored to people who are lower in the sales funnel thus actively searching for the \[insert your product or service here\] in order to satisfy their need.

Facebook ads are more of a promotion thus you are creating the desire. On the down side, the cost will increase over time compared to google ads.

Also do note that traffic is not the same as leads.

You can send cheap traffic with google ads \[display\] but your conversion rates will be abysmal even though your CPC will be 0.01 \[if done right\].

&#x200B;

Hope it helps. 
Also, in some developing countries, Facebook has more reach than Google.
It would depend on how much you plan to spend on each channel. I find Facebook to be very much a pay-to-play platform.
Depends on the industry, the goals of the advertising, and the product. 

$20 hat? Facebook 
$20,000 industrial lift systems? Google & remarket with a visual on Facebook to website visitors. 
Yes, Facebook has much better-targeting options and an overall less cost per conversion on average. I would recommend using both those because you can hit people from two different areas search/social media and the more you get your ads out the more people will start to recognize and associate your ads to your business. Thus, increasing brand awareness.
Also, lower budget campaigns are always better on FB in my opinion because you can't do much on Google Ads with low budgets. Your best bang for your buck in that scenario is definitely Facebook Advertising. 
Yes I run both campaigns. Yes in some of projects FB ads have worked better than Google Ads. 

For one of my client I used to spend around ₹10,000 and was able to get 10-13 conversions. Due to competition the bidding has increased heavy which lead to high Top Page Bid. So it was simply not sustainable. CPA was around 800-1000. 

So I setup FB ads campaign with ₹5000 for testing phase. I was able to get good traffic and leads. Then I shifted my entire budget to FB and IG. Today with same amount I am able to get 100 leads or more. The quality of traffic of traffic and leads is high and closing rate has seen growth. 
Yes, but your marketing strategy should be different between the two platforms because the user behavior is completely different. 

Facebook users are in browsing mode, so marketing on Facebook needs to be more attention-grabbing to introduce or re-inforce your product/brand to potential customers. 

And in turn, people who are now familiar with your brand by seeing a Facebook ad will then navigate to Google to do more research, and that's where they'll encounter your Google ad, perhaps among other competitors. Google users are already in the market for this product or are already familiar with your brand and are shopping around, so these are higher-intent audiences than those on Facebook.

To your second question, either platform can result in higher traffic or leads - it all depends on your objective, targeting and allocated spend.
Varies depending on the account. There's never a one size fits all. 

Could be sales, leads, registrations... All sorts of things. 
He requires that I jack him off every now and then. >!Because I am the Manager!<.

Jokes apart

1. Cost per lead/ Cost per impression
2. Engagement
3. Reach
4. Site visits (Event- Contact page)

Events differs based on what you are promoting. 
My manager didn’t give me any KPIs. we run a group of restaurants. i guess ours are store visits yet Facebook Likes seem to be all the rage where I am based. 
Sales should be the big one, but email optins, likes and shares are all popular too.

How could sales figure become part of marketing KPI? Easy if you're tracking sales conversions using Facebook Pixel. If you can show you're moving the sales needle with your campaigns you'll be your boss' best friend! :)
That's a great question, it made me pause for some time and look back at everything I've done in digital marketing.

I'd say that one of the most important things is to be helpful for your users and potential customers. Everything else just needs to be built around it. 

If you want to be helpful, you will build good content that answers people's questions; you will use keywords as this is the only way to speak the same language as your users do; and you will be there for your potential customers through different stages of their journey.
Great question indeed.

For me personally it would be CRO, conversion rate optimization.

&#x200B;

Could be marketing automation as well. I could learn HTML/CSS/Java much earlier too.
2. analytics -> funnels

3. We don't but PPC hero is a good place to start.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
you need Google Ads and Google Analytics - together they do what you want and so much more

do a course and learn it asap
Re: #1, what you're asking for is basically a CRM, ad integration, and e-comm oriented email marketing software all in one.

&#x200B;

Alex Becker's Market Hero might have all this functionality built into one, but normally these are totally separate softwares.  I can say Shopify as a platform can do all this, but you'd still be using separate plugins to execute each of these functionalities.
Glassdoor is your friend here. 

And your salary should be as much as you can negotiate!
Pinterest has a huge female following, about 80% of its users are women. So if your in the fashion industry, it would be a great way to target and very specific market. 
Yes  Pinterest can help you to bring more audience as everyone know female use Pinterest more then male. So its also a opportunity for your niche because as you told that its related to fashion shop and dresses. As compare to other social media channel, you will get more on Pinterest.

So buddy keep your work up. All the best.
You can post links on Pinterest which is a big advantage over Instagram. I find traffic time on site is much higher too. I only started using it recently but seems good so far.
For the female demographic and B2C companies, it seems to work quite well. It's a bit time consuming, but can be good if you stick with it and have a strategy in place. Additionally, the advertising is quite cheap still to get your pins seen.
Pinterest is good for Fashion & Art niche! 
Do this things :

1.Find the No.of Users using Pinterest for fashion in your Area !!!

2. Search for Google Trends and keywords !!!

3. Use GaryVee rule of 79/21 !!! Pinterest to be a micro part of Instagram

4. And I would suggest you to use Pinterest ... It will help you somehow or either, just it help you to be better and understand this platform too.. Just see to it, that strategy is well enough you to get start. 

5. Go and Talk to your parents, peer groups, friends who are using Pinterest and why do they do it so..How often ?....Cross Question them and you will know much of the insights

All The Best 
Not a fan, switched off of the paid version and switching off of the free version soon full too but for retweets there should be an option under preferences that says "Use Twitter Web retweets" that would solve your one problem at least.
You are probably reaching an offline audience or there's no out of the box targeting for your potential customers. 

In these situations I would go heavily manual then using  a lookalike audience out of 1-2k emails of subscribers.

Best!
May be you are not targeting the right way otherwise Facebook ads are incredibly powerful. I would suggest you to try interest based targeting.
Are you trying to run ads to just the Newsfeed, or letting FB auto-select the placements?

&#x200B;

Just had a (semi) similar issue, and a well known expert suggested we let FB auto-select the placements.  I was hesitant given we want newsfeed traffic, but it ended up working.  They're smart enough to know where your ads belong based on the creative.
Facebook estimates are just that... what is the max people they could reach if everyone logins to Facebook that day. This rarely happens. If you don't have targeting that is limiting you then it's the fact your market isn't on Facebook everyday I would say.

Are you running Facebook because you have maxed out on Google and Bing? If not, I would look at Google and Bing first because you can get traction faster then on Facebook for SaaS product.
Are you using very broad US targeting? This works sometimes for B2C and eComm but depending on the software that could be wasting a ton of time/effort. Facebook tries to show relevant ads to people, so if your ads don't seem very relevant, they won't be shown or clicked on. 

Are you getting any other errors from Facebook about the amount of text in your ads? And are you letting them run long enough that the learning phase completes? Consider keeping placements ONLY in Newsfeed everything else is mostly a waste

Is your Facebook Pixel set up? You can try to drive targeted traffic with interest-based targeting and move onto more targeted audiences once your Pixel is fed well.

Is your software B2B or B2C? Or both?
What are you considering a conversion? Only a store visit? For geofencing I consider a call or any sort of click on the landing page (eg directions) to be a conversion. Most of the big companies track all those actions. 
What program are you using for geo-fencing?
I've worked on the freelancer and agency side (agency now) and did tons of eComm, hopefully I can add some insight. 

&#x200B;

You have a huge scope of work for your digital marketing - how much of it do you want to hand off? $700K revenue is small enough that little marketing mishaps won't tank your brand, but still large enough that strategy moves can mean the difference in a few hundred thousand $$. 

&#x200B;

Freelancers are a bigger risk but a lot cheaper - if you think you can handle the slight increased risk of lower quality or less reliable work, it's probably worth it at your revenue level to go with freelancers (unless your expenses are well under control and you have more room). You'll probably be best off getting a few different ones to cover all of what you need vs. trying to find one that can do it all. On the other hand, one agency will probably be able to take care of everything, including the strategy.

&#x200B;

Standard agency retainers for multi-channel stuff is usually $1k - $5k monthly per channel depending on how much you need (we usually run $1k per channel per month for smaller businesses). Good quality freelance marketers should be around at least $20 -  $40/hour. Much higher for strategy
Your submission has been automatically removed because you are new to our community, spend more time contributing with your comments before posting.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/DigitalMarketing) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Hey there. I see you're having trouble with the AutoModerator on here. 

I started as a freelancer and am now scaling my operation into an agency model - I'd be willing to chat with you about options and see if we would be a fit to work together in any capacity.

If we're a fit, great, and if not, that's fine too. 

If we aren't a fit, I'd be happy to point you in the right direction.

Thoughts?
3 charges

1. Setup
2. Managment Monthly
3. Budget Monthly

I always use client credit card details for accounts. This means that their cashflow problems are their problem. 

Agree during set up budgeting so they aren't surprised.

&#x200B;

I would usually charge around about: 1-2k for setup depending on industry and amount of copy they want written.

Then £300-£600 a month for monitoring.

Budget adjustments are agreed with the client but the management fee remains the same unless extensive extra keyword research is needed.

&#x200B;
Always try to charge client with two things in mind.

1. Account and Campaign setup cost (one time)
2. Monthly retainer for campaign management

The account and Campaign setup cost is for the first time as you will be doing the majority work initially and the I would recommend charging 50 percent of the monthly budget as a retainer. In your case it will be

$500 for account and Campaign setup
If the client spend $1000 every month then 50 percent of it will be $500

You will be sending $1000 invoice for the first month and then it will be $500 every month. If the budget goes up your monthly invoice will go up too.

The percentage could be different for different clients.

Thanks
Use their ad account for ad spend, tell them to put credit card with $1000 in their ad account

Ask them to bank transfer your retainer, in this case is $500
Create account on quora like websites and create questions and answers with diff account. Use (best) type keywords. Try this and report me
It takes couple of weeks to couple of months. Basically it depends on your SEO efforts. If you do lots of hard work in building the high authority backlinks, then you can rank your keyword within a few weeks. 
Is it indexed? Since ive ranked for the keyword in 2 days all using on page optimization and no backlinks 
Please pm with the keywords you target and your url, I think this time the keyword your are aiming is more competitive than what you usually targeted, you have to build a real backlinks strategy! 
[removed]
You can get a certain number of emails per month free with mailjet dot com. Hope that helps. 
Mailchimp is free as long as your subscribers are not too many, you can have different styles of mails when browsing the templates section.
MailChimp is free up to a certain number of subscribers. You can also search for "MailChimp alternatives" if that doesn't suit you.
Just out interest, why would you need so many variants if you're using marketing automation? Surely you can build a single template and pull in the various products at point of send?

...or even at point of open based on tracked behaviour.
Have you tried the Postcards by Designmodo? here are marketing and transactional emails.
is it a push or pull campaign?  I wouldn't want 4-5 emails from some company that has scraped my contact from a database or linked in.  one email should be enough and if Im interested (ie: pass the 1st CTA, then email me the next 2-3 emails).

&#x200B;

\- A/B test subject lines before going out to all

\- pre header text

\- text option of email

\- alt text on images

\- CTA above fold for most common clients and 13inch screen

\- CTA above fold for mobile optimised version

\- optimised for most clients

\- make sure your data is clean beforehand, dont use a salutation like "Hello AUSSIEJOSH,"
Hey! I made an account to respond to this post. My digital marketing agency has worked with multiple non profits (currently working with veterans transitioning) as well as commercial/government facing brands. We would have no problem executing a politically focused influencer marketing campaign. I'd love to speak more about this, please DM me! 
You can practice using real clients' GA accounts. I'd go through and make inferences from the data (this is assuming you've already done a solid discovery/ROI/custom call with the client to find out what the KPIs & growth they want to see). Then based on what we know about consumer behavior, industry metrics, local market data, etc. bring them info that matters to them to make recommendations to continually optimize their strategy... I'm not sure there is a course for that, it seems like it would be more of a critical thinking skill and is based on having a good grasp on what the client wants to do. There are so many metrics you can pull but to analyze every single thing is boring and exhaustive and won't necessarily address what the true goal is for your clients. There are probably articles online somewhere regardless where you can find tips and tricks. Good luck! Please excuse my brevity, I'm on mobile.
Yoast is a great beginner friendly SEO plug-in for Wordpress 

Check YouTube, Udemy etc start digging in.


It's goes without saying to be very detailed oriented when doing your keyword research.

But as you're learning SEO for your website, I would also think about repurposing your web content into video and using what you learn in regards to SEO towards YouTube.

YouTube is the second largest search engine on the planet and I'm noticing an upwards climb especially with voice search becoming more and more popular. I.E people asking Google home for something and it playing a video...

I've been seeing great results on my personal stuff. Implemented some basic SEO on my videos and got them to reach views in the 5 figures a couple of times. Does this happen every time? No, but you're in a better position to go viral if you do by using YouTube as a different channel to drive traffic to your website!

Just food for thought on your Digital Marketing journey friend!
There is a google course on SEO/SEM, try looking for some insights there
This might help you out as it focuses on the basics & Advanced SEO. All the best :)

 [https://moz.com/learn/seo](https://moz.com/learn/seo) 
If you have a limited budget, then you should start building backlinks on high-authority sites. What do I mean by that? Profile links, web 2.0's, social bookmarks, article submissions, etc. 

Backlink from high-authority sites will give you that backlink diversity for SEO and will give you a nice link juice.

If you don't know where to start, check out RankdSEO.com backlink database. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of websites.
A job doing grunt work for a mentor.
Promo & bitable but none of these stock sites come close to professional video production and if you are working for a bigger company amateur stock videos like these can actually deteriorate the brand's image but for small businesses it's a great option to get out there!
Wave.video
And
powtoon
Headliner
Pixteller is just like Canva, but you can animate any element in the design. Similar to how Adobe Flash was back in the days.
Typito
I run marketing for a pizza catering company and our best marketing efforts have been 1. SEO 2. Google Ads 3. Social retargeting. In that order. 


Step one identify the client's pain points and business goals. 

Two, if required build the client a proper way to track marketing efforts (pixels installed, track conversions into a CRM, ensure the POS allows for taking voucher codes etc). 

Three, create a campaign with transparent budgets and goals.

Four, launch, test, learn. repeat and be prepared to report. 


Social converts suck.
Foster reviews.
Be special. 
Online ordering, kick ass service.

Marketing is mostly about having operational excellence and retention of acquired business. 

Retarget ads and google ads to get initial burst of business, along with high profile catering. 

Listen to the customers not social chatter. 

It’s 2019 after Fred Algorithm open your wallet for traffic or do it the honest way by being excellent.
Get a basic, but super-dialed website. Ensure Online directory listings are pristine. Aggregate lots of amazing Google reviews. Ratargeting ads on Google and FB/IG.

Curveball: Facebook events every weekend.
Start by building a website and then bringing users onto it and then growing it.

I can give you specific pointers, but honestly, the best way to learn would be to get started, stumble on a problem, find a solution, and then carry on.

It will also make a bigger contribution to your CV than some certificate.
I work at a digital agency so I hire people for all kinds of roles all the time and 100% of them are self-taught. 

Where you start sort of depends on what you want to do. If you want to be a developer, start a website. Wordpress is a good place to start -- not too basic but not too challenging either. There are lots of decent free resources for learning to code, like CodeAcademy, etc.

If you want to be a media manager, start looking into getting Google Adwords certified. They have lots of good resources and the certificate program is just a good structure.

No matter what I'd recommend starting getting into Google Analytics. There's a certificate but I'd probably start with blogs and resources before the cert program.
I like Rick Mulready's podcast The Art of Paid Traffic. He offers guides and coaching, but you can start only by listening to the episodes. Search the archive for older episodes. Some are good stories by successful and not so successful digital marketeers. If you are just starting out, you will learn a lot from both. Also a big part of digital marketing is creativity. Try to find inspiration on copy, photography and design. Check the portfolio of successful digital marketing agencies like Wieden + Kennedy. 
Digital Marketing is not the domain for the tech only. It is a myth. Anyone with passion for creativity, and numbers can learn Digital Marketing. Concourse, it takes time to perfect any art.
Start with learning the different verticals of Digital Marketing- email marketing, social media marketing, paid search, and so on.
Courses, like those from Udemy or somewhere else, are useful, But until you implement the theory, you will not have a command over the subject.
As "anotherbozo" said, start with a website. The website need not be perfect. Use it to experiment digital marketing tactics.
Do you have a degree or experience?
What company and what certifications do you have? I'm also from the NW Chicago suburbs looking to break into this field

Glassdoor says that the salary range for this posituon in Chicago is $41-$91k with a $61k average.
It's hard to make salary requests without substantial hands-on experience nonetheless I would ask for a 3 month performance review and that should give you leverage depending on your work ethic  and level of commitment. Put yourself in the employers shoes and think of something reasonable. Also remember that they're paying you  to train you whether it's directly or indirectly and those skills will carry over to the next company or your own projects or both.
IMHO, you’re kind of in a tough spot. I’d suggest going through the process and then asking them how they define success in the role. Once they define it, ask if you have demonstrated your path to achieving that success and what the value of that is to the company.

Either that, or just say you’d like $500k, drop the mic and stare at them until they respond :)
I've been in your exact position, eerily - also int he NW Suburb of Chicago. They gave me $34,000 at an eight-person company, I was their first marketing hire. $34-36 is realistic.
Moz has no control over your website. It's simply a 3rd party tracker that tries to guess, as best as it can, how Google views your site.  
Don't stress. They've (for the most part) just re-optimized so link manipulators don't have as high a score. As a result, DA seems to have dipped somewhat across the board. They go into this in depth on their blog, and cover the average DA dips for different categories of websites. The only way this truly affects anyone is that if they:

1. Use Moz's DA as a reporting/success factor in your reports, which you probably shouldn't be doing anyways.
2. Are in the business of building/flipping domains/link services for (likely blackhat) SEO purposes, and use mid-high DA to get sales.

Google does not care about your DA score, and you'll see no changes on your site or rankings.
No you don't need to take it too serious. But remember that before MOZ 2.0 release, Moz was showing the high DA even of low quality sites. But with MOZ 2.0 it is providing the low DA of low authority sites and high DA of high authority sites.
What have you tried already?
You’re asking specifically about improving the website positioning on search results? Or about the whole strategy?

If it’s the former, here’s some low hanging fruit you want to take care of at the minimum. To begin with, focus on quality of content for the topics and keywords you want to rank well for. And confirm Google has site indexed (crawled) your site.
Web development and mobile development services are extremely competitive. Is it a brand new website or did you do a redesign? If it is a brand new site, it takes a while for your site to earn Google and other search engines' trust.  I normally recommend my clients to consider paid search (if they have the budget) to generate traffic while we/they continue to create the content to generate organic traffic, interest, engagement, authority ... 

&#x200B;

It will be important for you to create some type of a content strategy/plan - consider doing video, case study, whitepaper, Q&A or FAQ ... a lot of people do type of specific questions. Talk to the sales team and see what type of questions they get asked the most ... make a blog post or article about it.

&#x200B;

Feel free to DM me if you have any questions.
What's the website, that would help with feedback. 
Go into Google Editor and go to Keywords and Targeting > Mobile App Categories, Negatives. Select "Add Negative Mobile App Category".  Select All Apps > OK 
Honestly GDN inventory isn't great and pretty sure there is more fraud/bots there.
We had a client move to GDN from other activity for cheaper clicks but we saw much higher bounce rates from it so its cheap but its not good.

A couple of tips 1) try a whitelisting sites, especially at small budgets get really focused on targeting options which make sense for what you know about your customers. Start super tight, use as many targeting options as you think you could apply, otherwise the system will waste budget on cheap but ineffective clicks. 
2) increase your bids - you get what you pay for and to get some scale when it's tightly targeted. 
3) set a conversion pixel on site, ideally on the next step of the user journey to track and engaged visit, a conversion can be anything you want to optimise towards more valid users on a CPA model, it doesn't have to be a purchase. 

You answered your own question. Do internships.
have you used mailing lists in the past? 
Are you trying to do a edm campaign or are your normal emails ending up in people’s junk folders?
What size is the list you’re sending to? 
What is your subject line? 
Yeah optimise your subject line to be less spammy. Also create a mailshot with a high HTML to image ratio.  And more stuff I can’t remember right now.
I've had similar problems reaching peoples inbox before with gmail. Even some emails i've sent to my friends they went to junk lol. When I made a google business email I noticed my emails do hit the inbox 99% of the time.  I realize your not using a mailing list program but, there is software you can use that are optimized to land in the inbox that I've had great results with in the past. I used Market Hero but, Klayivo is even better.
Likely a domain trust issue. Unless you have taken steps to make your domain you send from trusted, you are likely to be seen as spam by many providers. In the last couple of years this has become more important.

Also, you could be blacklisted. Check MX Toolbox to see 
Look into creating a custom audience to re-target the people who engaged with your ad but didn’t convert. Plenty of how-to’s on google and YouTube 
You can use the same ads in a different campaign - in this way you will retain all the social proof (likes, comments, shares, etc).  


I also prefer using daily budgets rather than lifetime budgets - makes it easier to scale, should you want to.
Definitely implement the strategy basicbatch suggested, you want to re-target those who showed interest but did not convert initially. 

&#x200B;

On a similar note, you should be A/B testing. Sure your sales were good, but you can make them even better month over month by running multiple ads with different pictures, different copy, etc. and just looking at which are converting best. Then you can shift the budget towards the better-performing ads and/or just remove the crappier ones.

&#x200B;

Make use of the data!!
Sounds like tawk.to
I use Zopim/zendesk chat, which does all of this. There are numerous competitors that have similar functionality as well.
Intercom does everything you’ve listed and more.  Tidio does a majority of your list for free. Best of luck, this is a tough space.
There are already a few out there.

What would set yours apart?
I believe zopim/zendesk and intercom (more recently) have this space pretty well covered.  Not that there isn't room for a new player in the space, but these systems are *very* well established and heavily used across just about any industry you can imagine.  I'd put some serious planning into what would differentiate you from these systems otherwise it'll be hard to capture any of the market.
You have it correct.

CTR = Clicks/Impressions, represented as a percentage.

So 20,000/1,000,000 = 2%.

Your conversion rate will be measured as: sign-ups/clicks through to website, represented as a percentage. 

For instance: 800/20,000 = 4%.

Another metric to look at would be your eCPA, or cost per acquisition. 

If you outlay $40,000 on a campaign and have 800 sign-ups, that's an eCPA of $50
The concepts are correct but the assumptions on CTR and CR values may not be. It depends on which digital channel we're talking about, the type of campaign, country, etc. For instance 2% CTR is too high if we're thinking only of display banners.
How much is a good ctr? 1.5%m
We use Asana for project management. 
We use Trello, it's really nice and user friendly.
Basecamp! Love it 
Blogs are great for web traffic increases. We post 2 promoted blogs a week, and see anywhere from 500-1,000 views to our website from these blogs. After they visit our website, they are hit with retargeting ads up to 120 days after the visit of our website. This is to not only stay top of mind, but to gain consistent traffic through people that have shown interest in your service/product previously.

&#x200B;

Hope this helps!
I have been following for last 6 months and they work great: twitter.com/CryptologyBook/status/1101566803099049984
What type of website/content are you trying to drive traffic to? What strategies are you currently using? Happy to give some personal insight with some more info! Feel free to PM if you'd prefer
Many people argue that backlinks no longer work and do not affect the ranking in the search engines, but I think that this method should also be used but not as it was used before. Back Links should come organically and from trusted sources.
Have you thought about getting into the more technical and analytical side of marketing? I left social media marketing because I felt like it was creeping into my personal life. But I am deciding on going back into marketing but focus on a different side of it
I’m also a digital marketer and thought the same. I have my own personal website so I’m still findable online w/o social media, but I stopped using Facebook about a year ago. I haven’t deleted it per se so I still go on occasionally (maybe once a month) but I’ve removed the app from my phone and found that I’m not missing it at all. 

I’m still using twitter but I’ve cut down on that too, I don’t find myself with more time though, I simply waste it somewhere else... like reddit. 😂
I had the same problem but was not really able to cut down much. I feel the need to stay up to date on how brands are performing (ads and social posts) so I can provide some nice and recent examples to my clients but also have an understanding of “what’s hot” in the market. What did work well was when I stopped working on influencer projects and I could finally unfollow those accounts - THANK GOD!
Digital marketer for about 10+ years now. It will be required for social media/content creation roles but no one really cares when you get into technical and analytics. I've avoided social media for about 5 years now for multiple reasons.
you can be on social media but not on social media. 
an example is like i use fb to market and get leads. i do have a fb account but i hardly log on to it to look at my stuff only stuff that will help my business.
apart from wasting your time, social media can be a great tool to learn new stuff. 
i guesss its will power

I don't use it personally - I spend enough time on it professionally.

Personally, I am a weird person in that I do not care one tiny little bit what other people are doing nor do I care what they think of me. I don't care if someone I know has had a kid, god it's so dull. I don't care if such and such went on a holiday - big deal. I don't care about the time you took your kids to the park.

I don't care about your opinions on current news events - you've all got something so profound to say.

People peddle rubbish about God. People peddle rubbish about vaccines. People peddle SHIT about cryptocurrency like they've found the next big thing - god it's all so fucking pathetic.

I flat out refuse to be part of the validation generation.

It's pathetic to me when I call a company and speak to a young person who simply gives yes or no answers - I die inside as I know this is caused by social media - people don't know how to communicate with others in person or on the phone anymore.

It's like an epidemic of lame. Lame people, lame attitudes. It's all so fucking lame.

Social media sucks, it always has and always will.


PS - if you think social credits, like in China, won't be coming to a country near, you're very, very mistaken.

Not tweeted enough about plastic pollution - no free train fares for you! (This is your future)
Like some others said, try jumping into other areas of marketing. It's one reason I've never fully vested into a social media position. I still help with social media ads, but generally, avoid it. 

It is crazy when you see how much time you waste on these damn social networks and apps. 
Deleting social media accounts will badly affect your business if you have a large follower base. This is because these will be your customers you trust you the most and have played a vital role in your branding. So, it's not good to delete your social media accounts.
It's very important that you create granular, tightly-themed ad groups. This will lead to more relevant ad copy which increases click-through rate, which increases quality score, which decreases cost-per-click. It also can improve conversion rate if you land users on more relevant pages and provide context to their search in your ads.
Why don't you just create a shopping feed? Bogus that the agency did that. they should have transferred but obviously, they are hiding something. If not shopping campaign go with your first option. More upfront work in the beginning but a little less in the long run and better control and easier to optimize. 
Many advertisers find it helpful to base their ad groups on the sections or categories that appear on their website. 

Google looks incredibly closely at your ad groups when they’re deciding who sees your ad and when. By creating specific, focused ad groups (even if it means making a lot more of them), you’ll be able to create significantly more effective ad groups. This will help your campaigns both immediately and long-term by showing highly targeted messaging to specific niches of people, giving them exactly what they’re actively searching for.
Used to be in your position hah, old times :). Just emailing, inbox their fanpages, searching for internship recruitment announcements etc...
Check out workinstartups.com 

Loads of opportunities.
I'm not so sure what kind of industry you would like to focus on but in my experience (wedding, family, home cooking industries), you should know the quotas of social media posts, kols/influencers, social media groups/forums seeding, online PR articles, website banners, etc... and other things like reach/engagements/impressions (almost everything :) ). It's crazy at the first time but you'll be used to it soon, believe me :)
Make sure to involve *key* stakeholders who will rely on this platform for metrics, and reporting to ensure that everyone is 100% on the same page regarding how this will benefit them. 

Figure out who will use this platform early on, and hold them to it - especially if you're paying for seats.

Often, if you're not the only one using the platform, you will find that buy-in can be low if it's not configured in a way that benefits the majority of those using it. This can be a tricky and frankly annoying process, but it absolutely has to be done. Make sure to take notes and get details in writing.

Also, think ahead about some features which may not be of immediate use, but may be important down the road - such as integrations with other software.

If this is a stand alone MA platform that sits on top of an existing CRM, make sure the data in your CRM is 1. compatible with how the MA platform accept it and 2. is clean. If you are getting a MA/CRM combo make sure the CRM scales well with your needs, and you can afford it down the road once you have a larger database. If you do not prepare well, unexpected scaling costs can absolutely ruin your MA/CRM ambitions.

If you are hiring a trainer to demo the platform for your team, especially any customizations - make sure *to record this* and store it in a place you can easily access later if you forget how something works.

Create a simple process doc you can distribute to new employees who will use the platform. Remember that even if they used this same platform elsewhere, your process may be different than what they were used to and how they were taught.

Finally, you want to try to avoid "tribal knowledge" at all cost, so make sure to document any changes you implement on the platform that deviate from how it "should" function out of the box.

Once deployed, make sure to positively reinforce staff who use it actively *and* correctly, even with financial incentives.
Honestly, I really enjoy Neil Patel's podcast and blog content. He's ahead of the curve on trends and strategies. Learned alot from his stuff and still listen in today. The podcasts are shorter too, like 10- 15 min nuggets. 


For Adwords I like Perry Marshall's books:

*Ultimate Guide to Adwords* is great

*80/20 Marketing*  is also very good for getting the right mindset.  


As for writing the ads I liked rhe Ray Edwards book:  
*Writing Copy That Sells*   


Finally for the logic coming after the adwords ad I liked:

  
*DotCom Secrets* by Russell Brunson.  

Would like to know too.
Ive listened to the Paid search podcast a few times and found it useful.
search engine land and search engine watch are good + what the others have listed here. 
I have the same question too
Perpetual Traffic is a pretty good podcast for paid Facebook strategies 
Advanced Google Adwords - Bead Geddes
Optimize title and keyword of content and video. 
I'd start by double checking all of your settings. Make sure you audience is big enough. If your campaign is spending the entire daily budget, it may be that some of your ad groups within that campaign are eating the budget, not leaving enough for other ad groups to serve impressions. If that's the case you can break out the underperforming ad groups into their own campaign and assign a specific budget for them. 

 You could also play around with increasing your bids for those groups and see if that helps with volume. 

There are lots of factors, it might be worth chatting with the Google support team as well so they can take a closer look. 
You didn't mention which Social Network.

&#x200B;

In case of Twitter & Instagram they matter fr. If you use the right hashtag your post really can go viral. For example I posted on Instagram at a time where most of my followers were online (you can check it under insights). This resulted in a lot of engagement on my post and I landed on the Top-List in the hashtag section. Got a ton of engagement and it was my best engaging post ever (+8k likes, +150 follows)
Facebook: No.

Instagram: Yes. But make sure they're relevant to you and your company/service/product. Don't over saturate your posts with random hashtags.

Twitter: Meh, sure. But if you're trying to get conversions from Twitter, good luck. Ha..

LinkedIn: Who knows.
Besides Instagram, Linkedin and Twitter I do see results from, I usually keep it to two hashtags max. I think Twitter still generates the best results for me personally, but I noticed LinkedIn gets me in topics people are following.
 There are a few key tips that you need to implement to execute an effective Amazon SEO strategy, but first you need to understand Amazon’s A9 algorithm. 

**What is Amazon’s A9 algorithm?** 

A9 is the Amazon’s product ranking algorithm software that displays the results based on the queries or keywords or key terms entered in its search box. The results shown are fueled by customers’ past purchases, shopping preferences, and a few other factors.

**Amazon SEO Strategy** 

Find those keywords that are successful and converting into sales.

Use those targeted keywords with specific product description in the listing

Use bullet points  in the product description, features, and etc. 

According to Amazon, product title should include Brand, Product Name, Material, Quantity, Color 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
It totally depends on your product. Some basic strategies are multiple listing of your products, getting the customer to write a positive review by gifting him something or future discount code included in the packaged box and running sponsored ads on the keywords of your competitions.

Give affiliate links to bloggers, influencer marketers on social media, etc
Depending on where you are, it only costs like $50 to set up an LLP, maybe a bit more for LLC. Any time you do work for pay you should be doing it under a limited liability company. A lot of people take the risk and don't get it done, and some get sued and lose everything. If you're in a position where you are doing contractual, paid work, you need to be protected by limited liability. It's easy to set up, just look over your state's guidelines.
There was a podcast that broke this down like EVERYTHING taxes, how and what state you should create your LLC it's here at thesweatystartup.com 
Yeah, it's really not that expensive. Your state should have a place to register a new company. Set up a new LLC, it costs about $150. If you're running a business you should 100% do this as it protects you personally.

Look in to business insurance, it's about $700-800/year as well for added protection though not necessary. Some clients do require it though.

Setting up an LLC has many added tax benefits in what you can write off as legitimate business expenses. In fact, setting up the LLC is one of them.

Past that - poof, you're a business. Good luck.
Thanks!
it will for sure, if you don't have a budget to travel often can always show pictures of your city, towns nearby....it is not all about Maldives and girls in bikini lol
You can’t use things that don’t belong to you to make money if you don’t have expressed permission to use them. 

If a photo doesn’t belong to you, and you use it to make money in the US or EU, you are breaking the law. 

Nothing’s free budddy boyyyy pay up 
I had a call with Google Ads Manager from Google. He suggested me don't choose any goal for my ads campaings.  Brand awareness & reach works like sharing your brand with a new audience. It has fewer clicks than leads goal.
Banner ads are performing good and can be tried for awareness and reach. Rest you need to analyse and optimise 😀
Nobody is going to do that for you. You have to pay some agency (like Branex) to do that for you.

These things needs technical expertise which obviously aren't for free brother.
Is your company small? If yes then you might have budget issues. 

I hv experience doing PPC for a small company. When I said small, I mean they have a very small budget for your campaign and less likely to give more.

You also need to make sure your campaigns are optimized (remove or pause irrelevant ads, update the negative keywords)

The best part is you can quickly reach people and promote your value. And it is probably rewarding to see your ads getting clicked.
It depends on how many posts the hashtags have. If #beautifuldestinations has 4 million and the singular version has 500k then use the singular. The more popular the tag the less likely your post is going to be seen. If they’re both below 1 million then you could use both! 
I remember using 20-30 Hastags in one Instagram post as it give more reached
It’s probably more worthwhile to check which ones get used more often in each case. Some phrases/hashtags might work better with plural but others might not. 
I'd say that depends on the volume of the hashtag.

Plural or singular is less relevant to whether the hashtag has 10k mentions or 1M. I'd use that as a gauge over a hard and fast rule. 
If they are your main keywords, do both. If they are partly relevant pick one of them (choose the one with the biggest numbers). If you don't have other relevant hashtags to replace one of them then do both.
I was asking the same question too! At least among my colleagues, I found that people find the singular one more intuitive, so go with the singular one -- no s!
Singular and plural hashtags of the same keyword represent different groups. So, first ensure which one you want to target.   
Remember the more hashtags you use, the more chances are that your post is viewed by others.
I know this isn't the question you're asking, but hashtags aren't going to significantly move the meter in terms of growing your reach. In other words, focusing on your paid strategy will make a much bigger impact than the difference between singular and plural hashtags.
I think it depends on your pricing strategy.

\- If your pricing is lower than other players in the market with a clear value, sending the course fee over chat seems fine.

\- If it is more expensive/premium, and you need time to explain the value of the course, I'd better do it as your boss does.
To be frank, either way, the clients are going to find out anyway. Don't forget, we're living in the age of digitalization where clients can dig tons of information via the internet. Or, your competitor could be smart enough to send an intelligence to scout for your company's core pricing on each course eventually exposing/revealing it in the latter. Bad move, and what if the clients are about to sign up and the last checklist is the "Course Fee"? Nothing is bad, the only bad thing a business/company would face is if they're sharing their core competencies/competitive advantage to a client, that is a risky move.
No prefer to make your email system :) and sent your products via email
How broad or narrow you target will vary based on the vertical and your budget.

Obviously narrow makes your budget go further but you cap your reach. 
Lately, larger, broader audiences tend to work great ( as long as you have sufficient conversion data associated with your pixel!)
I think we can all agree that there needs to be some level of targeting though, no? I wouldn't expect much to come from any product or service being marketed worldwide, to all languages, all ages, etc.

At the very least, I'd narrow down a geographic area to start, or at least separate them so you know what's performing best. After that you can drill down more and cast your net on a more relevant and engaged audience (one that you may have already known about or not).
Depends. It isn't easy to make an easy decision here. But rule of a thumb. Broader audience for awareness campaigns, more narrow audience if going to the bottom of the funnel. But we sometimes run a conversion or catalog sales ads against broad audience.

Tough one.
Definitely test both! My agency has seen both broad audiences and very narrow audiences work very well (with regard to ROAS:  return an ad spend).
Listening
Learn premiere or aftereffects... then you will be able to do so much more..
Adobe Premiere Pro has a lot of advantages and there are lots of tutorials on YouTube. It has all the adjustment features that Photoshop has like shadow/ highlight, colour balance and so forth too. You can resize to fit or have black background. It can be expensive for individuals though so hopefully that app name is just on the tip of someone's tongue for you.
If they will let you put a tab on the site as they say, I would setup a GA profile for the bank and just have the payment confirmation page be your conversions for a goal. If you setup cross domain tracking across both sites, you can track users going from your client's site to the bank and then back to your site. You can also build your remarketing lists of the site.

If the bank is ok with letting you do GTM code, then that would be better then above but depends on how much and what code the bank actually lets you put on the site.
In either case, you need to export the data into a CSV or somewhere else and clean up the data. If you don't clean up the data, doesn't matter what you do as it'll be a mess to work with. Maybe part of the process is working with whoever updates the current sales/stock database or MailChimp to make sure company name, first name fields are entered correctly.

&#x200B;

If you can look at something like a helper table in excel to merger the mailchimp list and current sales/stock database together. Seems like both has information that can be useful including when the last time someone ordered. If you knew the last time someone ordered, you could follow up and turn an in-active customer into a customer. One thing you need to figure out is what your source of truth will be for data moving forward. Seems like you may need to pull from the current sales/stock database and use that data to update your own database.
If you’re planning to do any kind of affiliate marketing then Mailchimp isn’t the right platform. Aweber is open to that, but outdated and buggy. ActiveCampajgn is good, but might stop you sending emails if you go over 1% spam complaints. 

If you’re reviving an old list then expect spam complaints, even if you export the IP and date info and display it in the initial email. 
What's your freshest list of recent customers and how many names do you have?

Fb/display only needs 1000-5000
You can use Excel consolidate and clean up the data. Have columns using formulas to see what info is missing that you need for each customer. Use mail merge to send the email.

If your not too familiar with excel and how mail merge woks you can always hire someone to do it for you.
you should take the move.   
If you don't like it, starting figuring out what a better alternative would be like, maybe you can find spaces to move within. or atleast gain experience that will definitely help you in future.   

The question is what skills did you want to get and in what timeframe? If you are only a couple years outside of school, it can take years to get really good at any one discipline in digital marketing. If your gut says don't go for an agency then don't do it. Maybe you don't want to work in digital marketing. It's not a career for everyone.
Embrace growth. There is no such thing as failure, only feedback. Everyday is an opportunity to learn more, breakthrough barriers and get better. Please don’t allow yourself to be handcuffed by fear of the unknown.

If you want to do it, do it!
I used the general Podcasts interest and then layered on an additional interest that was relevant to my podcast audience. For example, when I was trying to target people who were listening to The $100 MBA and other business school podcasts, I just targeted Podcast and then the Business & Financial interest and it worked amazingly well.
I've definitely come across a similar issue when testing out pages to market against...My suggestion would be to keep testing until you find a page that is available to target since there seems to be no way around the situation for the time being.
I know some strong % of podcast listeners make 75k or more per year so targeting slightly more affluent interests may help? 
I spent years on a MacBook Air 13’

I now how have MacBook Pro , on size alone I would recommend it.

I’ve never maxed it out in terms of processing power but I don’t do complex graphic design
I got a 15” last Summer for my senior yr in college. Personally 13” is too small for graphic design. But if you’re on a budget then you gotta do what you gotta do. 
You can buy a bigger separate display to have it at home,  I recently bought 23 inch display and cannot go back 
The 13in specs you give dont include discrete gpu so running photoshop on it will be pretty poor experience and forget about video editing.  The 15in will be better if you are using these types of programs although as you probably know to get the same specs as a PC laptop will be around 50% the price of macbook.
Go with 15 inch. You'll want the screen space as you do more creative work. 
13 inch is fine. You can but any HDMI projector. Having a dedicated graphics card for certain programs it's nice but not totally because for the work you'll be doing

I run everything off of a pixel book connected to a monitor or my 65 inch TV at home. Granted, I am not using Photoshop. Will not the main version anyway
There’s a Dynamic Creative option at the Ad Set level that I have found incredibly helpful for testing. With that on, you can upload multiple pics or videos and headlines and figure out which combination works best. I believe it’s only available if the campaign objective is Traffic. Maybe that will help?
It shows up under quick creation (when you’re creating a new campaign) right under where you select the campaign objective. If you’re still not seeing it, you can go to guided campaign creation and select your objective, it should show up just under the campaign name box. It’ll say “Create Split Test” and you can just switch it on there to test creative, placement, audience, and delivery optimization strategies. Unfortunately it does not seem to allow for split testing under the store visits objective (if that’s what you’re using). Hope this helps! 
I do woodworking as a hobby oh and I'm married so when I get home I can't sit in front of a screen all evening lol 
I just read Digiday and MediaPost once a day to know what's going on
Actually you should care only about those trends that matter and for that you don't have to read the news 24/7. I would say all you need is 2-3 hours a week. 
I just joined a paid forum, Coywolf marketing.  It was just started by Jon Henshaw, founder of Raven Tools. A lot of heavy hitters are active in there. 
I’m not an expert, but I do know that you can collaborate with gaming companies to put your “product” in the game you want.. like Benz tire in Mario Cart, and branded clothing in dress-up games. 
Teaching my sales staff that CTR is a trash metric and campaigns shouldn’t be judged by it solely 
my digital marketing new year's resolution will be to master On page and off page SEO perfectly this year and then move on to pay per click. 
To focus on SMO and increase my youtube channel views and subscribers.
I'm planning on doing SEO and ORM video tutorials.
To learn HTML5 and CSS. Would be great for my work. And it's a way how to keep job in case automation will pick up and turn the job market into mess. 
To watch more Gary V and Tai Lopez
It’s not possible to have it removed unless you message the person directly and ask them to remove it. At least that’s been my experience.
Just message them. For all you know it could be a mistake 
They don't care. You need to be important for them to care. 
I would guess that this company does not know what they are doing. Unless there is some sort of obligation to promote the groupon on your website but I don't think there is!
I have a client that *used* to do this, and I talked them out of doing it regularly (and instead got them to do their own promotions).   


Their thinking was this. (note they sell group classes, not products)

1. They had people who were sitting on the fence about whether to use their service, this was a way to get them to actually buy something, at low cost.
2. They used Groupon instead of discounting their own fees because , they rarely sold their classes online, most were in 'store', they didn't want to upset their current customers and didn't want to devalue their offerings on their own website and could claim it was just a special promotion. 
3. They also hoped to get people who wouldn't normally thinking about purchasing their services (ie access to Groupon's audience). 

I convinced them that 1 and 2 were poor reasoning. Essentially they were giving Groupon a cut for sending them their traffic. 3 is obviously why people try Groupon though (paying for access to the audience). 

Funnily enough 90% of the people who purchase on Groupon don't redeem services (consistently). It was literally free money for their business. Although the offers on Groupon had to fit a specific price point.   


As an aside (and I know this is past your question): after I helped them build an email list of a few thousand people, we began launching promotions to them on Black Friday, Christmas etc. Last year Black Friday was \~$5,000 in sales selling a $49 class. 90% never redeemed as well. Tried again this year at a higher price point and did similar sales. It's quite a particular class they provide, and it's all location restricted. They couldn't believe it was possible to do that amount of sales in just 2-3 days.   


&#x200B;
It's part of how they operate. The point of Groupon is not to "get traffic to your site" in fact that's practically irrelevant to the service. The point of groupon is to lock in a large order to boost revenue and business interest.

It's about *sales*.
Groupon sucks ass. Terrible business model that lures people into thinking that they are somehow benefitting by partnering with them, but in reality they are throwing away revenue. I know this from personal experience. It may work in some cases, but my guess is that is very rare
Groupon has a well established affiliate program. Is the website in question actually just an affiliate?
[deleted]
Optimizing your website may help you to increase organic traffic. Here is the few points which is must for product website:

1. Make your website navigation smooth and friendly.
2. Increase your website speed (should be above 85)
3. Website should be mobile friendly.
4. Generate Sitemap for your website.
5 Now optimize your all products - Include best keywords in Products title and description.
6. Use alt tag in product images.
7. It will be best if you can also rewrite your main product pages URL based on target keyword.
8. Implement schema.
9. Implement pagination tag on your blog page.
10. Use breadcrumb
11. Link all main social media channels with your website.
 

See what your competitors are doing.
If product demands content write short blogs.
Your main focus must be on product title.
Absolutely include a blog.  Alt tags are worth doing for SEO. Any other questions?
you might want to add a chat widget to you WP site to provide instant access to questions about product as well
Does the 3rd party ticketing system allow discount codes? This may be one way to track it
Will you be able to get these ticketing sites to insert Facebook Pixels to their thank-you/order confirmation page? That would help you to track the conversions which were a result of your ads.
Im actuallly writing an article on this right now, but you have to start selling tickets on your website if you want to quantify the worth of each paid event. 
Following
Scrapy or BeautifulSoup in python can do this for you. Of course you'd have to find a programmer but it can be done
What is the website built on - language and cms platform?
I haven’t used it for this, but I know Screaming Frog will do this. It likely will only handle HTML and JS and won’t be able to scan PDFs or images but it’d get you close. 
I use Siteimprove at work. We have a pretty large site (over 4k pages) and I use it for QA and some of their enhanced analytics tools.
 
It might work in a slightly different way than what you are thinking though. It crawls the site every few days and you would have to search for the items you are concerned about after. However, it does do images and .pdf files as well as link integrity, spelling, accessibility etc.

Definitely a paid service though.
Screaming Frog can do that. It's free up to 500 URLs, so if your website is really small that should be enough, if not -year license cost around 150 EUR.
I think - the major reason for this is instagram. All major restaurants moved to instagram and do ads over that medium. However - since facebook still remains biggest medium -  restaurants still maintain a  decent page so that users can check in, give reviews and fb users don't feel alienated. 

Battle has moved to instagram.  

Fb is good place for b2b segment imo. For b2c, instagram is winning the battle. 
Do a free test for one. Show them the analytics, see how many converted into sales, and use that as a case study for future clients.
Sometimes I think agencies or owners who are running the ads of ads manager won’t have the accounts connected correctly to the page so it won’t appear in info & ads all the time.

Also if they are just boosting post for instagram and don’t have the two linked by business manager it won’t necessarily appear either.
The agency or the person who is handling the ads will not be using the the official page of that business, most of the time they will be creating a new page or some other page to run the ads.

This works in many ways and one is many will think it has recommended post in the feed.   
It's still very underpriced. Once people realize its power, the prices are gonna go up in the sky lol. Rather wondering why people aren't using them, we should squeeze as much as we can.
I run ads for bars / restaurants. IG hands-down is the better ad platform for business. I obviously run ads on Facebook as well, but in terms of conversion rate (reservations / calls to book) IG wins. Our demographic is mostly under 40's, so that's probably a big reason.

I also think the ad-setup is much easier on the Instagram app if you aren't familiar with online advertising, meaning smaller outfits can setup ads on the go much more easier. 
[removed]
I will answer your question and also hijack your post. The answer is yes. 

My question is that I am running ads on stories directly through Instagram rather than ads manager because I'm on a time crunch and its faster. 

For some reason I keep getting an error message that says "post cannot be promoted. You may be unable to promote a story for a few reasons, such as: how long ago the story was created, possible rights violations, or the use of certain camera effects." 

It is literally driving me insane because our of the 22 pages I am posting this on it has worked on about 5. It is the SAME video and makes no sense. 

Facebook is a buggy mess when it comes to ads. So many issues 
Hasn't the "all-in" monthly budget already been discussed with the client?
I live in NYC and the job opportunities here are endless. I relocated here after I graduated and it was the best decision I've ever made for  my career.
Atlanta is huge. Tons of fortune companies, tons of agencies big and small, cheap(er) cost of living. Would recommend. 
Aside from LA, ATL, and NYC, Florida is rather booming right now, especially south FL. I'm in Northern Florida and it's especially a rapidly growing market.
I'm in the same boat as you. Would love to hear from everyone.
Boston has a good market lots of high ranking industries too in higher ed (MIT and Harvard are hiring a lot rn) and endless real estate development (working marketing for a developer/pm/architecture side) and pharmaceuticals and biotech are top industries as well. If you seriously want to know more about Boston feel free to message me born and raised did my undergrad here now living/working in the city with no plans on leaving :) good luck!
Metro Detroit.  Low cost of living, above average quality of life
Oklahoma City and the DFW area are huge hot beds. I just moved from Denver to OKC to work for an agency. If you are looking for an internship shoot me a message I have a really good lead for you with a great company.
don't know about campaigns but usually getting on playlists work , get added to different playlists by anyone you can 

some ppl have a large audiences and drop weekly playlists 
Hi guys if you need increase your streams PM me
Influencer marketing is the only thing I can think of off the top of my head that may even stand a chance to work. Would love to hear your thoughts.

Influencer marketing would definitely work. You can also try Social Media Marketing by yourself.

-You can try posting regularly on Instagram
-Follow all the leading electronic cigarette Pages
- Also follow the fans of these pages, who are users of electronic cigarettes
-Identify relevant hashtags and try using them in all your posts. This will help improve organic visibility.

Once you gain some traction, then you can approach an influencer who will help you amplify the reach.
Run vape adwords, social media marketing , affiliate marketing, email campaign on positive effects of vape - make it looks good for society like fighting cancer etc. 

Think how you would woo your customer. Know your customer better. Ideas will automatically come up
Hi!! I would agree with a couple of guys who have suggested 'Influencer Marketing" as one of the methods of promoting silicone phone mount. 

I would also suggest promoting your piece of article on Pinterest by creating eye-catching images and educating the audience through your blog.

Instagram is another good method wherein you can rich targeted audience.

Also look for similar queries on a platform called "Quora" where you'll get more suggestions!!

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

All the best, buddy!!!
  

You can create videos of your product and open a YouTube channel and advertise it also check for Instagram advertisement. Use relevant hashtags. Also ask your followers to share your posts.
I wouldn’t pay anyone without proven results but some people can bullshit their way into deals. Maybe you’re one of them.
Nicefroyo said it, you might be one of those people with the gift of the gab who can sell anything to anyone.

However if you're not then I suggest have proof of you being able to generate leads for them. Show them that its not just you saying "Pay me 2k and I'll give you 10 leads" its you saying "I have these 10 leads, theyre worth 2k as they're of the same quality ive given someone else before and then be able to back it up.
•••You would make even more splitting the sale profit cost. 

••If you pitch a 50/50 split in profit they make they all say yes.  Realtors are always teaming up with other agents and sharing sale. 

•Average can be 20-50 per closing in your pocket. 
Gather some customer reviews and use those as leverage.  
If your leads are of the caliber you claim why don’t you simply sell the leads?
Either will fail if you don't have a clear purpose in mind.
Perhaps a newsletter synopsis of top blog posts of the months a showcase so user can decide if want to dive deeper. 
  

Newsletter is kind of bulletin you send to your clients via an email. In blog you can express your opinions, write anything you feel about. Potential idea of blog or newsletter is reach people. The best way you could do is write a blog and send snippets or a summary of the blog like a teaser in your newsletter.
You can start sending newsletters to your clients but you need to have a blog compulsorily. A blog describes the topics that are related to your niche while a newsletter will consists of any announcement or a medium that helps to communicate things that are timely. With a blog you can even explain all the details in your niche as well as write articles about trending topics. Additionally, it also helps you in SEO and boosts your rankings in the search engine.
Get a sales enablement platform like Salesloft (if you have Salesforce), Hubspot Sales (if you have Hubspot), or whatever tools connect with your CRM. They will make the calls through the browser and the platform will record everything, with the tools to document which calls connected, which went to voicemail, which were wrong numbers etc. 

Edited to add: Salesloft definitely has local area codes, for $1/phone number/month; don't think Hubspot sales comes with it automatically.
Thank you!
Influcer marketing is differ from platform to platform. I'm aware about influcer marketing in social media. Ask if you have specific questions about them. 
There is a video course on influencer marketing on Linkedin learning.  You can access it free on their free one month trial.
What kind of content are you working with and who are you targetting them? What are your goals? Are you remarketing/retargeting users who have visited your site? What's the benefit of a free sign-up versus someone who doesn't for your site?

Sometimes you are not doing anything wrong as it can take time to build up the pool of users to remarket. From my experience, video ads don't usually convert our users right away but it does attribute to the conversion down the road. A user might view our 6, 15 and 30-seconds ads. They'll probably see another display ad down the road and eventually visit the site. 

Is the site online?
Sounds like they want a script that will pull down the HTML and identify all the open graph tags. Should just be some string manipulation once you get the HTML pulled down. 
so you need to scan for tags installed on the website

What is your actual task - you say create scripts for it - scripts to do what exactly?
They are asking you for the terms that could trigger knowledge graph but related to your startups industry. Mostly they will be asking to create a script to manage different kinds of these works to store, review and take decisions on that. 
Sounds like he just wants the site indexed with Google so that the company has a knowledge graph on search results (which is the box on the right with all comoany info). Do that through Google Search Console.
There are TONS of CRMs for different industries. Most companies I've worked with, have their own custom built CRM to match their needs. 


Not shilling here but I do know HubSpot has a free CRM option and the documentation on why and how is very good. 

I like to dig in and learn by trying, so if you're anything like me, then that is a good option. 

If you have any questions, feel free to ask. I also built my own CRM from the ground up, programmed both front and back end for my personal agency clients. 
The agency i work for specializes in content production. 
You can go for Google Academy and earn the certifications.
Everything on Google academy, everything on Facebook blueprint-- both free. 

Also read up about programmatic advertising. 

Search, social and RTB. 
Hi srb,

As the legal cannabis industry is relatively new, all your questions are hard to answer. Probably anybody has worked with this before.

So, I suggest you to research about weed groups and communities, to learn more about that persona.

About what's permitted and what isn't. I don't know. You need to research it social media by social media.

Good luck dude
You can probably still track all of the goals by opening up the url tracking a bit. 

E.g. if the user lands on “/order-thank-you/123456789”, count any url that starts with “order/thank/you”. 

But just make sure that’s what you want and that there aren’t any other conversions/goals going to that page or your numbers will be really skewed. 
The key aspect of outsourcing for my team has been workload alleviation. You pay your internal people well for their expertise, so make sure they are working on the most technical, specialized tasks.

Outsourcing is a cheap way to get trivial tasks done. It takes time to find the right people, as others have mentioned, but there are many places to find people to do the work. Don't waste your most valuable, talented resources on trivial tasks.

One caveat is that bad outsourcing will make MORE work for you. We encountered many bad content writers, and I spent more time editing their awful blogs than I did writing them myself. Understand that you won't find the best people right away, but once you do, you will free up a ton of time to focus on the tasks that make you money!
Outsourcing is a necessity to keep costs low. However outsourcing has its own challenges -- mainly finding your core group of professionals who you trust to complete the job.

Takes a long time to find that group, but once you do... KEEP THEM BUSY.

I've never worked with an entire outsourced agency, but individuals (or small teams). Have had plenty of problems, but there are plenty of excellent pros across the world.
Yes!! I'm doing digital marketing still now. Digital marketing is a universal way of marketing and cheaper than traditional marketing. 

I give the highest priority  to digital marketing in the marketing arena.
I too did AdWords certifications, then I learnt the usage using YouTube videos. I advertised my own website and then I started providing Adwords services to people from fiverr
if you have finished the certification then you try running some ads. For the first time once you make your adwords account you will get some credit that you can use to learn, to run adwords campaign and analyse campaigns.
I had to work as a salesman for a couple years before I got to start running accounts. Worked out fine, I’d recommend it as a path.
Buy things cheap. Sell it for markup. Prove u can in job interviews with quants to back up your claims. 
It’s all real time so any changes likes and shares are reflected at any moment someone sees it
I believe the stats you’re asking about are linked directly to the post ID - as long as you don’t change the post ID, the stats will remain the same. 
I recommend just playing around. They also have downloadable guides to the toolkits for different purposes. Semrush is a beast though, and it does really just take time and a lot of use to figure out everything it can do. 
Their guides are good. There are scheduled webinars. If you have the paid subscription, there is an SEMrush Facebook group.  Also the r/SEMrush is good to ask questions.
Get in touch with friends and offer to help for free. Even try small businesses.

Best to be honest and say, 'Hey, I think I'll be good at this and would love to add it to my portfolio.'

No-one can fault you for that approach!

Then when they like it, 'Cool, the next one costs $100! :)
Work for free. Tell people how you're good enough to work for them (how you've learned the skills that you have) and how you working for them can benefit both of you.


\--by defining who your market - customers - are.
Do a swot analysis, build from there, highlight your strengths, improve your weaknesses, attack your opportunities, and understand your threats..
Determine what you are good at! What can you offer, that you can charge for? Do you have testimonials?

&#x200B;

Market yourself by offering a solution to a problem that people need help fixing. This can be executed many ways.
I'm american so I'm not sure how it works in Canada, but I use Quickbooks Online to accept larger payments. It's free, but it does take a long time (5 business days to receive). I believe Stripe also allows you to accept ACH payments.

Also look into Google Pay. I recently use that for personal use and it's great. I sent $2k and it was instant and no fees.
I write in my contracts that third-party payment fees are the responsibility of the client. I also include this on every invoice. If I have a client that routinely forgets this, I add a note to the bottom of the invoice that calculates the PayPal total. If I have a good relationship with the client and they forget, I just add the unpaid amount (aka the fee) to the next invoice.

I unfortunately don’t know much about working with international clients, but in dealing with my clients here in the US, they always have the option to pay via check. That’s my rationale to put the onus on them to consider that PayPal is for their convenience, not my own.

Hope this helps!
If your client is paying by credit card that ain’t bad. If they are willing to pay by e-check there are a few options around 1%. Quick books and many banks will do it for free through their web portal. Depends on your relationship with the client.
Try Google Pay and Stripe.
Use Stripe combined with some pretty freelancer invoicing software. 

“Blah blah blah just use this free invoice thing” <- Don’t listen to those people. 

Invest a couple bucks a month into a software that easily creates professional looking invoices which allow your clients to pay with one click. 

A good software saves you time + money plus Stripe has good/low fees and decent (3 days) transfer to bank when clients pay with card. 

I know someone who does this for agencies (sell on commission). Would you like me to put you in touch with them? 
Thanks guy's for the help I didn't get the job but I got some foundation from you guys to improve on :)
What's the job spec? Can you be more specific? Does it require knowledge of SQL and Google Big Query for example. 
You want to go to Ads Academy and get certified and also take some Facebook Ads and LinkedIn Ads courses from Udemy.
My recommendation would be to prepare it. Ask yourself the questions they're going to ask you to know the answers before you go to the interview. Make sure to let them know you're a proactive person, also tell them you always plan everything. Tell them you must know why you're doing the Ads in order to get the best return. Only understanding the global strategy you might be 100% accurate with your ads. 

Tell them something personal at the beginning, that usually makes them feel empathy for you. Always listen what they are really looking for in order to give them answers that match with their desires. Let them know you're a team player. Also, make sure they understand you consider learning as part of the process. Marketing changes so fast that you must be learning every day.

About the learning material, as vivianso83 said: fb ads, linkedin ads courses. 
Just read about these platforms where 
I can and demonstrate expertise with previous examples. 

If they are a smaller business chances are they won't be using DoubleClick. It's expensive!
I have clients pay their click bill direct to the engine so they can’t decide to stop advertising and stick me with the last month’s bill.

Either LLC or s Corp is fine. If you get above $60k  or so annual profit electing to be taxed as an S Corp can help lower your tax bill due to lowering payroll tax liability on owner compensation. ***not legal or tax advice, I am not a legal or tax professional, do your own research, hire a pro blah blah blah***

I think most people use quickbooks 
Use Wave accounting. It’s free and has recurring invoices that can auto charge a card every month.

Also, never front the money for a clients campaign. 
Yikes, man.. I think you need to slow down. If you’re asking very, VERY basic questions on how to start a marketing agency, you might be moving too quickly. You’ll quickly crash and burn through all your money.. Take your time and learn more before taking that leap. Not being rude, just honest! 
I use excel to keep track expenses.
I'm excel freak
Yeah absolutely. Do you have wins or client reports you can share? In my experience, personal projects (or having your own clients) shows more discipline than if you just worked in a role either in-house or at an agency.

I graduated with IT/Comp Sci and applied for my first Digital Media Coordinator role after I graduated, and I ultimately got the job because I talked a lot about some of my personal projects and really impressed the hiring manager.

For you, it will be a similar situation. Additionally, coming from a consulting background you have additional skills (communication, account management, reporting) that are all very valuable.
definitely possible, just update the resume and start applying/interviewing. i don't know how feasible $100k is (depends on your area), but if you have tangible experience that you can present, then you should have no problem finding full time work.
Yikes you really call it the addiction industry? 

You’ll get the most out of organic SEO. Provide useful information about kicking the drugs your center specializes in. Blog posts about the latest developments. 

There are probably a lot of opportunities for guest blog posts from doctors and staff there. 
Difficult to say without knowing more about your target market and how you position yourself, where does your target market come from and how do they discover you?

What happens once someone clicks on an ad - whats the journey? Are you testing landing pages? 

How many pages/session? Are visitors hanging around or are they leaving quickly?

Perhaps look at specific pages that are have a low conversion rate or high exit rates and try to improve these?

&#x200B;

A conversion will mean different things at different stages of the journey and on different platforms or even web pages, all comes back to whats important to you and what your goals are. 
Yikes. Google, Facebook, etc have really restricted the ability of rehab centers to use PPC ads. Bing doesn't have the same level of restrictions, but isn't as popular as Google. 

SEO and targeted content curation is really your best bet. 
use social or maybe a mobile game to create a good old dopamine feedback loop associated with the brand. 
[removed]
I got one word for you "GMass"
Mail chimp
Create the profile of your typical user (persona/s), what are their likes, needs, things that (supposedly) drive action for them and write content around it. 

The content does not need to be promotional all the time, it needs to drive attention to it. 

Check your backlinks to the pages, some of the publications have related contents that you can explore and create content. 

Check the themes your competitors are using and generate ideas from it, specially for “gaps”. 

Participate on social media and ask questions to your audience. They possibly will respond and you can put together something. 

Check quora and alike for questions and responses for themes related to your niche. 

Brainstorm themes, then subjects within the themes.  

Follow the publications your audience follows, you’ll find articles, comments and even videos that you can give your own twist. 
Yea the person above nailed it, do what he said.
Digital marketing landscape is changing continously. So if you want to stay ahead of the trend and earn good money then you need to keep adding new skills. For ex - video marketing will be huge in next 5 years because of high speed internet in dofferent parts of the world. So try learning that.

As of jobs, since you already have claimed to be creative, look for firms that focus on artistic side of things. And have something to back up your claim. It will help you. Either way my best wishes man
[deleted]
Both.  Find a job. Like was said, experience is the best, but also keep taking courses, and reading.  Digital is a moving target. ABL! (Always Be Learning!)
IMHO the best way to learn is through experience. Since you got some basics now, you can try applying for some jobs.
What position are you looking to get is this a technical position or what.
Just A/B test different times and monitor the number of email submissions and 'No Thanks' clicks for each. Also split the results into desktop and mobile.
When they begin to scroll to exit the site/page.
Definitely wait a few seconds or until they scroll the page. An immediate pop-up is a sure way to make people drop-off.
Omni channel > single channel 
Depends on your target market and where they spend time. I’ve found it’s better to do the right channel really well than to half ass all of them. Expand as needs and resources align. 
Do what makes sense for your brand. Food is great on visual platforms like instagram. B2b? Go for LinkedIn. Don’t spread yourself too thin, and do what makes sense for the particular business. If that means just one or two platforms, do it.
Some platforms or channels will work for your business and some won't. With that in mind, it's better to get the answer as to what works as fast as possible so you can focus even more on those. Test multiple platforms at the same time, find where your customers are, and scale as soon as the channel is profitable.
I do recommend a placement whitelist for most advertisers. Yes, it will limit your impressions, but how much value are you getting out of having ads on a channel of an 8 year old playing minecraft? If I was running a campaign with the goal you outlined (which I wouldn't be because direct response is the best kind of advertising and awareness is a waste of money in 90+% of cases IMHO) but if I was, I'd look at active lifestyle stuff. Snowboarding, running, martial arts, rock climbing, stuff that people who do it get hurt a lot. If you dig up a good amount of those types of channels you should be able to buy some inventory, assuming your geo target isn't super small.
I recommend whitelisting with placement targeting. So you placement target specific YouTube channels. Probably the most likely video campaigns I’ve seen to be ROI positive are for online learning.
Well the biggest reason they are out of fashion is that it’s negative SEO... 
Have you tried different domain or sub domain for a landing page, doing this may help you in giving a good SEO scores as well less proper landing page structures As per your requirements
Have u analysis the content of the success video. What kind of pain points or hesitation is the video addressing. What kind of fun or interesting factors about the video. And try to replicate the recipe. 

As much as it is important to market the video, the content that the video contain play a very important role in results too

By the way, you shall network with other YouTuber. And cross promote. And perhaps you can craft an email to existing customers about your new video release.

I'm sure they got some opt in from previous videos and if the two video categories are the same, perhaps they will be delighted with more content. 

You probably also want to ensure this video lead to a call to action that hopefully get viewer becomes subscriber or get on mailing list or even give u a sale.

Studying old video email opening rate may give u some hint who to retarget too
I’ve not used HubSpot personally, but I’d be flabbergasted if they didn’t have a method of importing a suppression list - if you know what the hard bounced email addresses are, just upload them to the suppression file and poof, they’re gone I’d imagine.
count me in for digital marketing!
I'm down I actually studied digital and social media marketing and opened and investment company based around it last month it's in startup grinding by cause I'm a poor kid but I'm hopefully gonna see a 6 figure success soon possibly 
I'm a marketing manager for a tech company. Feel free to reach out! 
I would be interested
Chatbot. Future. Large audience. Large outreach. 
Video content, memes and dont spam. Make sure its all relevant to your target audience. Find a niche and test the different types of content they like most. Pictures,blogs, videos or gifs. Test them all out.
You should put a small amount of money behind your posts... Facebook reach for businesses is externally limited.
You can try uploading a campaign in youtube, its pretty easy. There you can get a taste of the marketing involved.  Other than that, visit a bunch of different sites and get retargeted to see how different advertisers use video. 
Why are you needing their credit card details to register online?!

Seems like a great big conversion killer to be honest...
Set up a portable wifi and have them use their phones. Eliminate the bottlenecks... no wifi and giving people tablets seems like two of your potential bottlenecks. 
I too am working in this sector, and I got a job because I had Google Ads certifications and practical experience in Digital Marketing (I have a website and I gain knowledge by doing various digital marketing experiments on it).
If you have good experience freelancing PPC why would you go back to school? I know people who don’t have a degree but are already making 50 to 70k with 2 year experience. Especially PPC, even I was invited to interview for managerial positions even though I’m not that experienced yet. It’s up to you but I wouldn’t get a digital degree. That’s a waste, I would go to school for a STEM field or law but never marketing.
I did a course in DMI. I had no experience and it landed me a job. The course gives you a good overall understanding of DM and not just PPC. Plus it's a great place to meet potential clients/employers. I didn't do the second year as I was working, some corps do want to see the Masters I suppose, but I haven't needed it yet. 
So your relevancy score is 8, you have 77 reactions and 16 shares. All this for a total of $20 over four days? I would scale it up for a few more days. Both yourrelevancy score and interactions indicate good targeting and messaging.
Use the Facebook Audiences Insight to build a customer persona and test your theories.  
Typically I get higher engagements and interest from cold traffic to some sort of valuable, interesting content semi-related to the product than a direct BUY MY SHIT NOW!  


Then re-targeting these content readers with sales promotions and offers has a much higher conversion rate
Target Lookalike Audiences of the loyal customers.
Budget / Rate = Impressions

Impressions / Rate = Budget

Budget * Rate = Impressions




**I am taking marketing formulas as Marketing Strategies**

Less relevant clicks are better than more traffic.

Positive ROI means everything's going great.

Start as soon as a trend begins (this will help your brand perform better and have a good rank in search results).

I plan my strategy using **Conversion Rate**,   CR =Total number of conversions ÷ Total number of clicks × 100
Great answers guys

I like to use Sostac and STP for planning 

 I love to hear what other digital marketers use and think it’s great for beginners 👍

$1000 / 6.0 CPM = 6,000 impressions

6000 impressions / 6.0 CPM = $1000

$1000 * 6.0 CPM = 6000 impressions

Then with a CTR benchmark of .08% we can expect 4.8 clicks to a client website.
Partnering is not a good idea specially when you are new to a business. I'll only partner with someone when I know everything about a business, or at least 90% about that business!

I would suggest you do all the work and if need be, outsource your work to some professional.

All the best :)
Hello! I can speak from experience. On 2015 I partnered with a puertorrican lady. We both were internet marketing enthusiasts at the time (when had been studying online marketing for barely a year). 

We decided to create a digital marketing online academy together and what happened is that I ended up doing all the web design, graphic design, studying, translation (because it was I. Spanish) and after 2 years I grew completely fed up of that project because I was producing all the trainings and she was cashing in big on my work. I decided to remove myself from the project and I had to start from scratch again since I don't own the domain name nor the commercial name, it was "her idea".

Long story short, unless you absolutely can't do it on your own with hard work, yeah, partner up. 

I've been creating my personal brand from scratch and getting some contracts as a marketing freelancer and I've been doing well! I didn't need to have partner, entrepreneurship is scary when you're on your own but it will make you grow up.

TL;DR: I created an online marketing academy with a partner and ended up doing most of the work myself and got the hell out of there after two years of being used.
Just update them and use  the updated feature (in wp) or schema to show recent update date. Creating new links will take more time. If you have not received any Penalty mail than go for the update. can you also tell us you back link strategy for the blog website. tld as well as for the blog page
What is PPC, and what do you mean by Branding, like I know what it means but how would it translate to a job (i’m new here).
Don’t. Get an internship or a job. Freelancing can overwhelm you. Financially you have to follow tax law and you should have insurance.  Get a low level job or an internship. That way you are safer  
Why would you want to do that and not just have them add your account as an advertiser or admin to their page?
Once you are an Admin already with that page, you can manage and create ads, no need for client's login details.
Had the same issue. After contacting Google customer service it turned out we had 2 Google tags implemented at the same time (pls don't ask how this could happen and why it's affecting the bounce rate in this way).
Bounce rate is now getting back to normal after deleting one of the tags.

Hope this helps. 
The most common ways this happens is from Google analytics tag firing twice or an interactive Google analytics event being triggered.

Pm me if you need more help
2 tags

Common error and almost did it myself last week
Your post is far too ambiguous. There is a gold mine out there but lots of different mines. 
automation is going to take over everything - but ... not that fast. 
From my perspective, I am trying to future proof myself and looking to make a shift toward Digital Project Management ...

Just keep your head up and keep on top of new trends
I have this same question. 
i am job
Wow! Thank you so much for detailing your experience and perspective for me! It makes a lot of sense now! I will keep exploring and doing more research, and continuing learning and hopefully I can make the switch!
Here's what I did:

* Ask around in your **own network**. You must know a friend, colleague, aunt, uncle... who has a small business and needs some marketing help. Tell them you want to learn, and always, ALWAYS under promise - over achieve. Ask for a small budget, and just experiment a lot. Maybe you can work on some kind of pay per lead fee or commissions. No risk for them, and it will motivate you to work your ass off.
* Go to **networking events**. Now that you're helping some people you know, get out of your comfortable chair and talk to people. Tell them you're starting out and you already have some projects. People who don't know you, will need some kind of social proof. Show them results: "I helped X achieve X by doing X. And I can probably do the some for your company."
* Get your **own website**. Don't start writing blogs and doing ads for your own business. Focus on achieving results for your clients first. But make sure you have an online presence. People do business on trust. Get a website, and let your clients speak for you. Did they like the results? Did they like how you worked? Ask for testimonials.
* **Leverage** your existing client base. Always under promise and over achieve.  If you do that, your clients will be extremely happy. Hopefully. If they are, don't hesitate to ask them to bring in new clients. They probably know someone who could benefit from your skills too. And if they can help their network, they're even happier.

Good luck mate!
I suck at marketing and need a professional but the ones I found charge hundreds up setup and manage.
Books - The Mom Test and When Coffee met kale. After reading and practicing what these books say, I am able to understand whether something is a real need or not wayyy better than I could earlier.

Tools - I make B2B tools, so finding people for that has been hard. But recently came across UserInterviews and Respondent, both of which have been pretty good here.
There are lot of online certification available online like **google garage, google analytics academy** and many more do a search you will find a good one.
What I used in my digital marketing education is HubSpot, Udemy, and Coursera.

But I also heard good things about Alison Free Diploma in E-Business. Maybe that's what you're looking for.
HubSpot and the Google AdWords/Analytics is good. But remember, certifications don't mean much without actual experience too. Start a blog and write content about marketing initiatives and insights, showcase what ya know and experiments you might have run for others. 
OMCP was great. $1,500. Learned it all. Started a business.
Overall it's good and shows that it's got an updated look, that said:

1. It's a little too busy for my taste but I'm a web developer so I tend to hate overdone websites. It just seems like you selected all the bells & whistles (everything flying-in etc). The header folding is a little annoying, just do the simple slide up.
2. You need some padding on the pricing table. There's also so much going on there too it makes me not want to read. Clean up the padding, maybe add bullets or checkpoints,  etc.
3. There's gray text on contact form that doesn't do well with contrasting.
Hello! Great work on the website. Not much of an expert with that but in terms of ease of use / navigation, I had no problem with it.

About acquiring clients, you can look into eCommerce business owners. They are everywhere and most of them don’t know how to market their online stores. But, of course, they need a guarantee that you will be able to drive traffic and convert that into sales. So you also have to manage their expectations when it comes to ad budget. If they only give you $100 for ads monthly, I’d rather not accept it. 

And if you can, try offering a 3-month program because in that way, you’d be able to gather significant results. If they are not happy with the results, you can offer a 50% refund or something like that. But if you make them happy, then guaranteed that they’ll continue hiring your services.

Hope this helps. Cheers!

Your website is a parallex website but not optimise according to Google Guildlines. 
nice work, all the best!
1 you love flaticon.com
2 your site looks a bit like a picture story book for kids
3 no one is going to pay your top fee - hide the price and put a call to action to call you for a quote. $3000 is too much to show on the site.
How is the flat monthly rating working out for you? What if they need a larger change that's taking more of your time?
But yeah. Awesome. You do a lot. Outsourced or all in house? How many clients at a time?
Also how do you plan on getting clients? Specify niche or all?
I have reviewed your website and got to result that the **web designing** part is commendable and the proper padding and its designing part is good enough. As a Qdexi Technology's Senior web developer i reviewed it and your website seems interactive to me and I must take some help related to features that your website have. The theme used is good and the development wise it is also of a good quality.
Was it running on IG as well?
I'm stumped
How long after you boosted did you check the stats? Sometimes it takes a while to sync up, and in some cases it never does LOL Try this: find the post on your page's timeline. You'll see an orange bar at the bottom with a people reached figure. Click on that to open up the post stats. You can also try looking at the performance charts in your ad manager 
Check the countries the ad is showing in?
PROOF that FB is lying--NOW it shows over 100 less likes AFTER that campaign is already over! WTF!

[https://imgur.com/a/a4DJQIf](https://imgur.com/a/a4DJQIf)
Did you create the post as an ad and have a organic post? 

I went to your page and I cannot see the likes either. 
Can you export the data from ads manager and check what number it is showing there? 


*My answer doesn't have any evidence or experience to back it up. 

First I'd ask myself, what's the end goal in obtaining a master's degree? 
MBAs are meant to train/qualify people advancing into an excutive possition. Because of this MBAs have more name recognition. There are penty of people in excutive positions that hold an MBA. Those that have one know first hand the hard work & dedication thats required. They might be more confident in hiring an MBA vs a lessor known degree. So an MBA would be good if you wanna

 1. Continue consulting, with a plan to get more clients.
 2. Get hired for excutive/management position at companies in unrelated industry.
3. Marketing department project management position.

A master's in digital marketing will probably be more focused, so if you wanna advance in specialization thats the way to go. 

1. Continue consulting, with a plan to charge more for your services.
2. Get hired for management position at a digital agency. 
3. A position at a digital marketing tech company. 

I'd compare the course loads from from several universities. Pick the degree & university based on the course load that most interests you. 

I'm sorta in the same boat, but I decided to get a second bachelors in CS (First was Econ/finance). The plan is to get a masters after I'm finished, so a I'm interested in a the answer to your question too.

I wouldn’t do a masters in digital marketing. I wouldn’t do a bachelors in digital marketing.
If you take an Executive MBA at your regional university you will meet and network with lots of other local business leaders and get well ahead in your career. 

If you take a Masters of Digital Marketing, you might learn how to do digital marketing a bit better.
>     We are having troubles getting full access to these pages in order to bring them into the Ads Manager.

Can you elaborate? If they're holding the page and not giving access back to the rightful owner, you could ask Facebook to relinquish their control of the page. 
If for some reason their former digital marketing team is holding the account, that's the job of your client to handle. 
For most DM companies, off boarding consists of removing their access to the page, if they haven't done that then it may mean there are still contract obligations that need to be met. 
The real difficulty is the traffic generation not the site creation....trust me on this, I built a company that did this a few years back.
Start Blogging and SEO.. here are few best tips for blogging [Check here](http://whizfeed.in/all-about-blogs/)
Are you doing all the marketing yourself? Or have a sufficient budget to outsource it?
Google/FB Ads, Data Analytics and UX Design all niche are challenging and scalable. 
It is highly recommended to be very focused and hard working towards niche.
Good Luck for future.
If you need any marketing advice bud message me! Fellow young entrepreneur running my own Marketing Agency.
Depends on what you are selling.

I normally put their site on Serpstat, Ahrefs and SimilarWeb to see traffic, back links and potential competitors. 
Then I search on Linkedin to see what kind of presence they have, if they have a LI page, and their employees, CEO, CMO and sales people.
I then search their social media profiles and if they are local somewhere (ie. a restaurant, garage, etc) I check their Googleplus - see what comments they have, rating etc.

But it all depends on what you are looking for.
GTmetrix for site issues.
SEMRush to see if they are doing Adwords, check their SERPs, and many SEO issues.
Screaming Frog for crawling reports.
I like to see if there are any curses over the business. If they’ve wronged a witch, or have a location on a native burial ground. Those types of things.
Sounds like your trying to do a lot right from the jump. Been around agencies for over 10 years and seen the ones that fail try to do too much at first. Down the road that comes in really handy but at first it pays to be really great at 1 or 2 things. 

Not really sure what your question was but that thought did stick out to me. 
Not trying to be negative, but doing exactly what other traditional, full-service agencies do isn't exactly "unique"  0 that said, it's not a bad idea...and can totally work if you've got the networking/marketing chops to find clients. 
What's really important here is learning new skills. So if you don't know something then go ahead, learn it and get your certification. What future employers and clients are really interested in is results you have achieved for your past clients or employers.
It's nice to have that Google certification icon on your website 
it's helped me and I didn't major in marketing or have any experience in marketing.
What exactly do you want to analyze and for what purpose?
I'm looking to explore unstructured data in tweets and telegram channel conversations for example.  
The purpose is to gauge sentiment, needs and brand reputation that can feed into content and marketing.  
I'm looking to see whats possible?  What are people using?  
Is it just negative, neutral, positive sentiment outputs?  Can we extract deeper meaning around words, language and trend topics?  
I'm not even sure if I'm naive in my thinking of what can be accomplished or the practical outcomes of using these insights for marketing.  
* Why not utilise the new IGTV for masterclasses with the kitchen staff?
* Use Instagram stories for behind the scenes and sharing sales promotions/offers
* Search for followers of other local restaraunts (all cuisines) and follow them and like their posts
* Repost Instagram posts from your customers and give them 10&#37; off their next bill as a thank you (incentivising free marketing for future customers)
* POST ALOT OF EYECATCHING CONTENT SHOWING OFF YOUR FOOD USING A MINIMUM OF 15 RELEVANT HASHTAGS. None of the above strategies work without content on your page already
U/MRGreen_22 gave really good answer there! In addition, try cross posting from your other platforms that have followers I do the occasional Follow us on Instagram posts.

Do some hashtag research to find out which ones will drive organic searching traffic to your posts. 

 Be consistent in your style format. Good luck!
If you want increase your Instagram followers so you have to focus on Instagram   you have to send daily update picture  of your restaurant   i have also five restaurant but when i started few people know about my restaurant but after few days  one of my friend suggested me to connect restaurant business with social media  i do and  i didn't get  very much response but now i  using instalex pro  and which is really help full for me  getting followers likes  on my all social media account.
Two big areas: I would definitely look for the top hashtags in your space (use all-hashtag.com) and engage with every relevant post you can. 

I'd do the same thing in your area. If you have a social media tool you can even do both together (people talking about steak or nice lunch in your area). 

Don't forget you need sales, not followers. Instagram is a tool you're using to get sales for lunch. Make sure they don't just think you have a cool IG page!
Do you know Gary Vaynerchuk ? And his instagram strategy ? It will take few hours to achieve that but worth to try it :) 

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mVR5OZSgjw](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mVR5OZSgjw)
You'll never get real Unlimited hosting. Hosts might claim that, but then they will throttle you on RAM or something similar so that the more sites you add, the more your performance degrades.

Just like anything else, you pay for what you get.
i've had many, and i tend to favor dreamhost. i've been with them for about 6 years now and set all my my clients up on them as well. never had an issue, no downtime, excellent customer service, seemless dashboard design.

here's my [referral link](https://www.dreamhost.com/r.cgi?1433422) if you anyone wants to join.
I would recommend FleHost. I've been with them since the start of the year and so far it has been an outstanding experience.
We use [Dreamhost](https://mbsy.co/m87HD) for our wordpress hosting and we love them. Very fast page loads.
I honestly don't mind GoDaddy. They've never given me any reason to be mad at them. Incredible support and you offload costs if they are client sites.

Just have to be firm on not taking sales calls / asks.
1 and 1 has always been really good for me 
Godaddy \- and they aren't pushy \- maybe it's you!

If you don't want something then just say no, shout it or hang up.
JustHost is super super cheap and their UI is basic but easy to use. That's what I used to go with for any sort of low-traffic, easy to build WP site.
I am currently looking for the same thing! I’ve researched a few companies like Mention and Awario. They seem good but I haven’t used them myself. Those may be a good place for you to start. Good luck! 
Get Five Stars is a pretty good platform that I’ve been using for rep management for the past year or so.
Is the meaning the same as it is here in England? Rep management assumes you've fucked up something and need to hide it.

Or do you mean a site like Trustpilot?
It's very hard to increase the limit if you reach out to FB, sometime it takes weeks for them to respond. Usually the threshold is about $35 Ad spend before more open up. But don't quote me on that, it may be the majority but sometimes it takes more spend. It took me about $150 to open 2 more than $300 for another 2.
This is a recently added security feature to avoid inauthentic advertisers. Normally you have to have a certain amount of spend in an account to prove it isn’t fraudulent, but if you reach out to Facebook support chat they should be able to help you increase the limit.
Your best bet is to buy a domain, pick a web host and setup a simple WordPress site and go from there.  Or buy a domain and setup a WordPress.com account and point it to that site.

You should take a little time and learn the back end of things like domains, DNS, hosting.  It will help in the long run.
Instead of "dummy" site, build yourself your own website/portfolio for practice. :) I believe Squarespace is pretty budget friendly. 

Is your friend looking to learn more about how to market a product/service on a website? Or the actually building/coding to launch a website? 
I am a web developer with 10 + years of experience. Currently I am experimenting on vision marketing. It could be possible we can help each other

If you want I can help you by provide  a website for practice. May I know the details about what kind of practice you want to do?

Upwork like anything is just a tool. They're are plenty of solid professionals on there.

Also consider doing a job post on indeed.

There are a few things you can do to help find exactly what you're looking for. 

1. Be as detailed as possible in the job description.

2. Use filters to screen. For upwork, I'd screen out agencies, target us only, 90% or better, and use upwork test scores to filter your results. I like to stay in top 20%. Pick 2-3 and have detailed interviews about the project.

3. Always ask for Proof of skills and past examples.

For FB for example, you should learn enough to screen out newbies. Do they use dynamic creatives? Give an example of best performing lead ad campaign. Give an example of best performing WCA campaign. How do they optimize? How do they target? How do they build custom audiences?

And consider this...

Proven marketers are in high demand and will also be interviewing you. Good marketing isn't a magic pill but just an integral part of sales. How is your back end? Upsells? How do you compare to your competitors? What's your brand position in the market? 

There are nightmare clients too.


I m not sure why you have such a bad idea about upwork. I work in a similar website, set up my profile 1 year ago and made 40k until now, only from Google adwords gigs. I have had many hundreds of happy clients . I am sure that there are many more skilled people on upwork or similar websites. I believe that, if you check their reviews, you will find a person who know what's up and can help you achieve your goals
I run a company that offers PPC services but I don't want to be too self promoting.  I'd avoid Upwork and find a local agency. If you pay budget prices you'll get budget results.  
[deleted]
Hey There,

I'm experienced Digital Marketing professional. I have handled all sort of platforms, certainly I can help you in setting up and optimising the campaigns. I have handled US,Australia, NZ, SG clients. I'd suggest contect me on Skype (dhaval_kk90) 

khushme.wordpress.com

Cheers!
Linkedin
yes, a basic working understanding would also help - have you worked on accounts before?
This is a great idea. I've written about this in a blog post a while back. Here are the full set of tips:
http://www.deirdrebreakenridge.com/use-these-9-tips-to-become-a-leader-in-digital/

But to answer your question directly, as I've written on tip #5 you should look at awards which will talk about the full spectrum of what a digital marketing campaign looks like. The Sabre Awards just ended, as well as the Webby's and I believe the Anvils. Google any of those and you can see a full spectrum of digital campaigns. 

Also check out the business pages of the social media platforms you're looking for. LinkedIn I know has one: https://blog.linkedin.com. The others do as well.

Lastly, I write about digital marketing on my blog http://todayonsocial.com, feel free to check it out and you can look at the category "LinkedIn" for tips on publishing there. 

Hope that helps!
i was an affiliate marketer than i moved it to the next level so i started professionally in a company. 

I suggest you some tips about it, my bullets full of 7years experience in pro. job life.

- Create a wordpress for you about what you love, just try to find low comp. niche.
You will learn about SEO. 
- Make some videos about your niche, upload them to top 3 - 4 video sites so you will learn how to drive traffic with videos.
- Do some research and find some trend and low competition products to sell as an affiliate marketer, go spend some money for them on search engines and social media. You will learn how to optimize your ads and how people react to your ad texs, ad images etc. So you will learn how to sell something to people with optimizing your creatives(ad text, ad images..)
- Create some social media pages and update them, you can pick some trend topics to create an instagram page, try to grow it. And you learn how people react to your posts. 

Dont forget this; marketing is about %90 phsychology. Just start with understanding your native consumers. 

those are my quick reply tips, guys you can ask whatever you want. Best
This might not jive with other people’s points of view but let me give you my perspective. When I’m hiring junior levels I’m looking for two things; intelligence and attitude. If you’re smart and you’re keen and willing to work hard then I want to hire you. Some previous experience is a bonus but it’s a distant third. I can teach you the knowledge but I can’t do much about your smarts or your personality. 

So my advice you be to show those things. Talk about your experience but through the lens of how you solved problems, how you didn’t give up, how you learned from your experiences, how you showed initiative. 

That said, bring some of your work with you to talk about. 
100% agree with Tartan. The other thing I would add is you need to have a POV. What's your philosophy on digital marketing? How would you approach marketing at the company?

Doesn't matter if you're right or wrong, making the attempt shows you're thinking about them and you want to add value. 
Thats awesome! Congrats! I would come in prepared with a sample strategy that would make them better, I have been in your shoes, and the one thing that has helped me has been showing their need and that I had a solution. Just one "Main" need in SEO or Paid search is enough to get you hired. I did this at one of my jobs and they wanted me to start the next day...lol
What do you want to do? If you want to be a front-end dev, you should learn as many languages as you can to be functional for any situation. If you want to be a digital marketer, you just need to be familiar with this stuff, so JS might be a waste of time. It all depends on your goal.  
Influencer Marketing may be a good strategy at the beginning. 

Be sure to not use it as your only acquisition channel. Install the FB Pixel code on your website and start tracking conversion.

Then, you'll be able to create a lookalike audience to really scale your business with on target Facebook and Instagram campaigns.


I've done some creative stuff on instagram, and worked with large influencers. If you pm me your products/niche i'll see if I can help. 
IMHO, chatbots can be really useful, if created correctly. But if it's a boring bot, I don't think it brings much help to the company. Just like a bad salesperson - he/she is out there to represent you. So if the person (or chatbot) who represents you is just there for appearances and isn't creative one bit... well, I don't think there's any point in using it. 

Similar to every other aspect of your business, good content and in this case - copywriting - is the key. Like personalizing the bot so that people actually want to chat to him. 

I found [this article](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/give-your-business-voice-7-copywriting-tips-chatbots-pereiaslavtsev/) really helpful. It tells you all the basics how to create an entertaining chatbot. 
[removed]
I think yes. In future messengers will surpass email. 
But I think it depends on your target audience. For example, if your target audience is "old school" email would be work better and give you higher ROI. But if your audience is young - messenger would be better choice. 

I think you need to test both channels for your project and then decide what better in your case
It's way more complicated, unfortunately. You've probably seen on google (who owns YouTube) that it's very context aware. For example, searching "cheap cars" is recognised as a non-branded search so even perfectly matching keywords (like a company called "cheap cars") doesn't do much if anything. It's also something that will favour local results. YouTube also considers the context in similar ways like news topics favouring recent videos and evergreen topics caring less. YouTube's raking is mainly built on machine learning so not even they know how it functions. YouTube programmers tell it what to optimise for and the best-generated models are used. Same with Netflix, Amazon and most major platforms. As for what it optimises for, YouTube has been open about deemphasising the role of views for most of a decade (as it leads to more clickbait and people gaming the system). Watch time and watch sessions (there are YouTube help pages on them as it's quite technical) has been the focus and engagement (likes, subs, comments etc.) have been hinted at recently. 
My Opinion as a Youtuber:

Yes and No

Yes:

If you find a subject that nobody creates content for but lots of people search = win.

Example: New Indie game is out, lots of people searching informationg, nobody talked about it. Same for software, products, websitea, news, etc.

Win win. Easy peasy.

Ive done it. Many other have done it too. It works, its simple. The hard part is finding such subject and doing a decent video that wont lose in ranks later on.

NO:

There are many layers to YouTube Algorithm.

You van get many many views from suggested video and the home page. I work with SEO here in Brazil and the way YouTube works nowadays changed a lot. Really really new channels have a hard time being promoted, but it happens. Growing channels get more and more views from suggested and home. Fact.

SEO Experts will tell you that. Youtubers will tell you that.

How to get your content suggested? Its very hard for new channels. 
YouTube apparently has to understand who consumes your content and the quality of it. A good suggestion is making more than 50% of your viewers watch until the very end of your video.

If you can do that you win. Youtube will promote your content. Thats what is happening again and again with content creators.

But when we are talking very very new channela. 0 subs.

Your best bet is doing amazing content (way better than competition) and send external traffic to it. Email list, social share, news site, etc.

Thumbnail and title are also super important to up your CTR and this helps ranking higher, if your content is good.


Yeah its no easy. Ita easier for very niche channels and channels that create highly shareable content.


If it’s a niche thing, what you’re saying will probably work. 
Like others have said and you stated in step 1, find a lucrative niche you can exploit in terms of opportunities and low competition. At the end of the day, it's all about getting views.  
India. 
Put the google analytics code into the header of the page...
you will have to use tracking in newsletter then you would be get in google analytics campaign. i hope that may be  [Digital Marketing Houston] ( https://www.informaticscommerce.com/digital-marketings/) help you. 
The way would be to add UTM parameters to your links from newsletter. 
Well, I know how feel. My education was in the medicine and after my degree I realized that I don’t want to practice at all. 
After putting so much thought into what to do, I decided to go into digital marketing field. When I stated my agency back in 2016 September, I didn’t know anything about Digital Marketing except Social media management but today O am glad that I really made that decision.
Yes it was very tough and a nightmare at times but I kept Learning and kept going. Now I am better at learning and earning from those people who had an IT or Marketing background. It doesn’t matter where you are, don’t wait for the right time. The time is never gonna be right, just start doing.
You are going to face failures along the way, but these failures are just for your learning. 
If you won’t quit despite of adversities, I can guarantee that you are going to make it as a business owner.
Best of Luck 👍🏻
You Have To Passionate About  
Digital Marketing Required Some Skill There Are As Follow 
English Grammar 
Canva , 
How To Use The Tool Of SEO SMM Affiliate Marketing Etc

You Do Not Have To Afraid You Want To Join Some Event Of Digital Marketing 

One Of The Best Event In India 
www.revealinternet.com

Titles can be arbitrary. The most important part for your internship is building experience for your resume, learning common industry terms and the bottom up workflow. 

My previous job had specialist in the title and it was more about the income level than the actual work. Instead of down talking the job figure out how to talk it up for when you interview for your next position. 
You just have to spin it the right way. 

Just make sure to have a decent personal website, and it’ll help if you get Google Analytics certified.
An easy way is to start your own **blog**. 
Keep in mind “its people that are going to hire you.” No matter how strong your digital skill set might be, your chances of building a digital career are fairly slim if you aren’t willing to get out and network with other people. So **Networking is important!**

There’s plenty of digital marketing methods, actually. You can start with Content marketing, Social media marketing, Email marketing, Pay-per-click advertising (PPC). 

Well, Free online courses will guide you through everything from search engines, to social media and beyond. 

**Enough for the start!**

Like others have said, starting your own blog is always an easy way to go.

Another is if any of your friends have their own business, offer to help them for free. Nothing teaches you better than practical experience.
Start your own blog and use practical givaways to build an email lists of prospects. You can then work your list by building a relationship by offering more tips. You can also promote your business and obtain more customers.
[deleted]
Every Day Digital Marketing Change 
You Have To Learn Daily New Thing In Digital Marketing 

For More Details Visit 
www.revealinternet.com
For real estate automated marketing, we use MavSocial. It has worked wonders for us (as compared to Hootsuite & Buffer). We absolutely love the "Social Inbox" feature which lets us respond to comments and DM's right inside the MavSocial software, no need to login to our 20+ social media accounts.
For social media marketing you should check out https://recurpost.com/.

It is a set it and forget it system that executes your social strategy forever.
I know I'm late with this, but hope it helps at least for some future reference. Anyway, as a digital marketing agency, we recommend our clients in the SMB space [Smoove](https://www.smoove.io/).
 
We think it's a great tool for their needs, devoid of the usual 'fluff' you've come to expect from overburdened solutions. It has a free pricing plan which is great to try before you buy as it allows you to try all the features, Its core features include newsletter builder, landing page builder and email automation. Its amazing to see how our clients are benefiting from what marketing automation platform can do for them. 

The cherry on the icing on the cake is the [blog](http://blog.smoove.io/) – it's a real treasure trove of amazing information on all things marketing in the SMB space.

That’s a tricky type of company.

Some things I would try:
•Experiment with Instagram stories. Go into the factories and show the process of how it’s made. 
• ask the retailers to tag you on Instagram 
•try social media giveaways and contests
•(if possible) package redesign to include Instagram handle on the bottles. 
•try to advertise in fancy product magazines (golf, cigars, etc) 

But Instagram stories is definitely doing magic to tons of companies out there. Show people what they don’t normally see from other companies. 
I've done planning in mindnode then gone back to add open and CTR data. It helps me visualize where to adjust.
I'm not sure I understand your premise. Do you think none of the major or even minor movie studios or the theater chains do digital marketing? They all do, very, very well. 
Social media can drive a lot of traffic to movie
•	IMDB listings and advertising
•	Pre-roll video advertising
•	Get a visually compelling & functional sub-site
•	An interactive Facebook page dedicated to the movie
•	Use all popular social media channels – Instagram, Pinterest, etc. 
•	Social competitions & quizzes
•	Utilize Google Adwords

You're basically contracting a marketing company, no? 

You can make it part of your contract terms that the work they do for you is completely white-label (and non-compete), though that often commands a premium if they are unable to showcase it or use it as case studies to their other clients.
I would say first do paid advertising. Organic Reach often takes more time. Like 1 Month for low competition. 

You could try a paid video ad on YouTube  (you only pay if someone watches more then 15 seconds eg. Does not skip). You should add a cta like "Help the artist by sharing". 
The YouTube video should be 
A. A short version of the best video of the YouTube channel 
B. A short compilation of the best videos.

Maybe also showing the face of the artist at the end or  letting the artist talk about his work.
This could help you stand up from all the other faceless channels.

Also for organic reach. Make public YouTube playlists. Embedd the best videos for the category "videos for toddlers" or something and embed here and there a video from your client. 
(Playlists often rank better because there are so many good rated videos in them and if someone watches the playlist they automatically are watching the clients videos too)

You could also submit his videos or artwork to reddit, 9gag, deviant art and so on for organic reach. 

Important: focus on a specific small niche. It's easier to rank for that and then try to rank for a broader audience. 
What have you tried so far?  I'd be on mommy blogs, join Facebook groups for moms, see if you get an influencer or 2 to endorse your channel. Just the first things that come to mind.   I agree with first comment that paid ads could get the ball rolling better than organic to start.
For free reach i recommend to find related content websites. Post the videos where your audience is. Like relevent reddit or steemit channels, facebook groups and forums.
I'm a software engineer working day to day with adops and other DM positions. I wouldn't want to sound pretentious, but I feel that computer science is much more deep and complicated than data marketing. The knowledge required upfront for both jobs seems entirely different to me. Both are very exciting jobs thought - most of my adops colleagues work 10h a day partly because they just like their job. Feel free to ask me any question, I'll try to answer my best.
could also post this in /r/AskMarketing 
If you want to start your own business in digital marketing you will have to be a people person in order to land clients. Can you take free courses and land a job where you develop more skills... probably. These are two very different career paths wherein think knowledge in both would be a benefit but you would likely be an expert in one. You just have to decide where your talents are better suited. 
[removed]
Define a plan (learning path) for her. Find out what she knows already (that's her starting point) and then figure out what can she learn in that limited amount of time (where do you want to get her to). In-between there are many milestones which you can turn into challenges that she needs to figure out. Let her do most of the learning herself and be around just at certain times (for example 1 hour a day to see how she's doing). Follow this old saying: "give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime"

Hope this all make sense :) good luck!
Hello, I'm a paid marketing and development intern at a nonprofit. Here are a few things I can pass along that have been great for me that might help:

1. I enjoy learning new things. Director of Development taught me how to use Salsa CRM and gives me email marketing projects. 

2. The same Director lets me do the data analysis to leverage our marketing decisions. 

3. I was given the opportunity to make creative purchasing decisions. (Purchased Adobe Creative Cloud License)

The only issue that I have as an intern is lack of direction on the creative side in social media. We are getting a marketing a marketing manager next week so that should help. 

TLDR: I like to be given tasks that I can build my resume and my experience with. 

1. On boarding. My internship I didn't have a chair... 
2. Listen to what they are interested in and try to give them work related to that
3. Help them set up the computer and email stuff. Interns don't often know a lot about this. I had to help other interns find the email button...
4. Have fun. 
Can't speak for anyone else, but If I was hiring I would not be bothered reading all that. Someone in marketing should be able to market their self in an elevator pitch, no?
You say you have knowledge in Google Analytics. Do the exams and get yourself yourself certified. 
Hey there,

I am a professional Resume writer. I went through your resume. I'll point out few things to you that would help you out.

Firstly, make sure you have a title under your name starting with a power word. For example, if you're a Marketer, write under your name, "Skilled Marketing Professional".

Secondly, you must write a summary section of yourself. This is the first section that is used to tell WHY you should be hired. Write at least three strong bullet points starting with your hard skills and ending with soft skills. If you need help in that, DM me.

Thirdly, start your experience bullets with power words. Like, "Efficiently managed daily operations... ", "Expertly devised a strategy for..." This leaves a better impact.

Fourth, have a "Core Strengths and Skills" part. Here write all of your skills. Like you wrote you have knowledge of Google Analytics. You should write it in that section, not here. Same goes for photography skills, Advertising, SEO etc.

Fifth, concise your bullet points and merge them. They are scattered all over the place and it looks way too lengthy. There shouldn't be one-liners. You can write like, "Skillfully implemented SEO for optimal results of products and used Internet Product Research to determine pricing, .... etc.

I hope you get the point.

If you want me to craft your professional resume, you can DM me. I have some creative templates to show as well.

Good luck. :)
I think that's not a bad list. It's good. You could land an entry-level position with that list after some editing. For example, instead of saying used SEO, elaborate if it was onsite SEO, Offsite SEO, Local SEO or an aspect of SEO like inbound marketing. Same thing with saying you're experienced with Adwords. Elaborate on how you're experienced in Adwords PPC. Did you utilize bid adjustments after spotting trends in your account? Did you work to improve your quality score or improved your negative keyword lists to decrease cost per conversion that led to an increase in ROI? So elaborate with a few more details in how you're exactly experienced in those different aspects of digital marketing. 

As far as certifications go, you should get Adwords certified (Most Important), Analytics, Bing Ads. and Hubspot Inbound Marketing. All those certifications are free and do not take long to get. You'll need to get Adwords certified even if you get the job anyway if it's an agency. As a friend said, "A Google Adwords certification and a can do attitude will get you further ahead than any digital marketing diploma."


- Have a title under your name
- Have a summary section of yourself telling your hard skills
- Have a Core Strengths section where you tell your DM skills
- Start your experience section with power word, like: Skillfully performed SEO to improve google ranking of the product

If you need to ask anything, you can DM me. :)
I have been hiring Digital Marketing professionals since 2 years now. Let me tell you nobody is bothered by the enormous amount of functional skills that you have mentioned.

Highlight your achievements. Supplement your skills with achievements instead of boring functions. If you know Google Analytics - what did you do with it ? What have been your achievements? 

You know something along those lines. Hope this helps!
