Yes.
Sure.  Just make the charity the beneficiary.
Yes, people do this all the time.
Of Course. What do you like to do? Is there a Club or Group that is involved in this? That would be the charity for you. 

For Example, I am in a group that does Professional Fireworks as hobbyists and I know of more than one little policy out there with the Guild as the Beneficiary.
We have a company that will donate 10% of your benefit amount, to the charity of your choice and it’s not taken out of your payout.
Before I got married, the small amount of life insurance offered through work, along with my 401k, all had a local animal shelter as the beneficiary.
There's three parties in a life insurance policy.

&#x200B;

1) The Buyer -- I.E. Who is paying the policy

2) The Insured -- I.E. Who the policy is in-force ON (in this case, you)

3) The Beneficiary -- I.E. Who gets your money if you die

&#x200B;

The buyer and the insured can both be you, if not you, the buyer must have an insurable interest in you (spouse, business partner, etc..). The beneficiary is irrelevant to the insured interest. You can name a charity, or u/bicismypen from Reddit. As life goes on, and you start accumulating assets or grow a family, you can add/change the beneficiary to your estate.

&#x200B;

I have a $250k life policy. My life policy is currently set to cover the remaining cost of my home, vehicle and "funeral expenses" if I die. From there, the rest of the money is set to go to (insert charitable organization here).  When I get married and start having kids, that will change to go to my family.
It’s a juvenile term life policy, right? Likely not worth anything. But you can always call TA and ask, it may have an ROP (return of premium) rider but also not likely since ROP riders are fairly new (within the last 15 years) thing... an ROP rider would mean anything your parents paid in premium would be returned to you since the policy was not used.
FWIW... mon life assumed the policy from the original company... TA and MLIC are in essence the same company (TA and MLIC were subsidiary  companies until MLIC went through a formal name change in 2010/2012 to TLIC) so actually MLIC/TA are the same company just MLIC is now TLIC. :)
I'm not in the insurance industry in any way but I'm pretty sure I can answer this one...

Life insurance is meant to cover expenses from the loss of a loved one or provider and to replace their income, pay off debts, things like that.  It isn't usually meant to be a windfall for relatives so they "hit the jackpot" if you die.

Generally speaking, the beneficiary of a life insurance policy is going to be your spouse, so they can continue living a similar lifestyle after you die (if the life insurance policy is appropriately-sized).

There's a secondary beneficiary, usually in the case of multiple deaths (ie: both parents killed in a car wreck at the same time).  That is usually the children of the insured.

Why aren't more people buying huge policies?  2 reasons:

* Cost: Life insurance can be expensive depending on a number of factors.

* Being overinsured: Say you make $50k/year and you want a $10-million policy. That's going to raise some eyebrows at the insurance company and they'll want to know why you want such a large policy.  Now imagine that you somehow do get such a large policy, fake your own death, and move out of the country.  Or your kids or spouse decide they want the money more than they like you, and murder you for the insurance money.  Having huge policies like that incentivizes bad behavior.
Money aside....

Personal choice. Everyone views life differently. I look at my daughter and ask myself how can I make her life better, easier and ensure stability for her future.

Other people ask themselves how can they make there own lives better regardless of who is impacted by their decisions. 

They say life insurance is an act of love and selflessness.
You’re absolutely right. Unfortunately from my experience many people don’t think about this. Also, when insurance agents meet with people to discuss life insurance, their advice usually isn’t to “buy as much as they can to set their kids up”. Sometimes, after covering their debt and funeral expenses, they are already dealing with an “expensive” policy. I always ask if people want to leave any money to their kids, but it never seems that big of a priority when they realize they have $250k+ worth of debt that needs covered first. I hope that helps a little. Life insurance is a touchy subject for a lot of people, and many people don’t see the value in it. Not to mention, most people can’t afford to drop the monthly payment for $1 million dollars worth of life insurance
I think you may be vastly overestimating how often life insurance actually pays out. If you're talking term insurance, most people will pay tens of thousands (to hundreds of thousands) of dollars worth of premiums and never receive a benefit. Maybe you can afford a $10m policy, but you're paying an immense amount on a gamble which may never pay out. Whole life policies can be extremely expensive, and the benefit will likely be paid long after your children have already "set up." 

Another note to consider, life insurance sales are also heavily regulated (under laws referred to as "suitability" laws). An agent could have their license revoked, be forced to pay huge fines, and even go to jail if they sell unsuitable products to consumers. A life insurance policy with a benefit far and above what a normal person would need for income protection would likely be considered unsuitable.

I'm a life insurance actuary, so I can answer any price / probability related questions you might have.
By the time most people realize they need it. It’s a lot more expensive.  Maybe my friends are all idiots. (They are) but still when I was in my 20s none of them gave a shit a life insurance.Now that we’re all in our mid 30s I’ve gotten a few more questions about it. 

1m isn’t even that much if you think about it. Depending on when your spouse dies. Spread that out over till retirement and it’s not going to be a lot.  Shit if my wife died tomorrow I would get 1.5m and that would pay me about 50,000 per year to help raise my two kiddos. 50k is okay but not great. I would definitely still have to work and work pretty hard live the same standard of life we have now.
I got a policy in my early/mid 20s for a higher amount. I figured out what my salary would be and if I died how much my spouse would need to maintain our lifestyle without my income. 

When I upped the amount past a certain point it actually got cheaper for whatever reason. Also I took this out in my 20s wasn’t a smoker and had zero health problems, so it was pretty cheap for term life anyway.
One reason is cash flow. Another being you can't just buy as much life insurance as you want.  Someone that makes 50k a year and is in there 40s won't be able to buy 20 million of death benefit. There's also different types for different reasons. Sorry if this isn't specific enough but I think it points you in the right direction.
I actually don't have a dime of life insurance in myself as I have no need for it.
Not sure what the first one is, but the second is called fully underwritten.
first one sounds like Mortgage Protection through the banks - instant approval. Not sure what other term there is (our company does not do that)
The former process is sometimes called "retrospective underwriting" and sometimes "post-claims underwriting".
Contestability clause?
I am so sorry to hear of your situation. 

Do you mean national education association life insurance? If so, they have a year of grace when you are not employed as a teacher/paying dues during which maintaining life insurance through the group term plan is allowed, but I am not sure on how that works in retirement. If it was available, in order to keep it, she would have had to maintain her membership in the NEA as a retired member of the state chapter. Or through the NEA directly as a reserve member for more limited benefits. 

Your best source of information is going to be the insurance company at this point. The nuances of that policy and your mom's life insurance in particular are only known to them. 

There is a link that I am sure someone will post to NAIC insurance finder that allows you to request life insurance companies to search for your mom's name and reach out if they have a policy that is hers. There may be some that you are not aware of. 
She would have had to "port" her coverage (often Term life has a portability option but the employee must request that he/she take the coverage AND must pay the premiums). In most cases Term life that is ported can be continued, as long as premiums are continually paid, until the person reached age 65 or SS Full Retirement Age, whichever the specific plan denotes. 
