My name is Chirag Jain, I am 18yrs young from "Indore" city based in India. I'm an Enthusiast Digital Marketer and i've worked for more then 4 companies as a Digital Marketer ( i.e: WWF, UN, Daly College, ASASS ). I would like to work from Remote or On-site . I am open to work for free or whatever salary is provided
Hi, I'm a graphic designer with 4 years' experience working with businesses and personal brands. Between liaising with clients, working on projects, and life commitments, I find myself not having as much time as I would like to reach out to new clients.

As such, I'm looking for someone who either has business contacts or possess good marketing skills to promote my services to potential clients. *Please note that this isn't a job with a fixed rate; rather, we will share the payment after a project is completed.*

If you're interested or would like to learn more, do drop me a message. Thanks and I hope to hear from you soon.
[https://www.reddit.com/user/saad\_abbasi/comments/bjr0jw/digital\_marketing\_ventures/?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x](https://www.reddit.com/user/saad_abbasi/comments/bjr0jw/digital_marketing_ventures/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)
Hey, I’m Ryan and I am extremely proficient in digital advertising. I have the pleasure of being able to create and manage paid traffic for businesses as my full time job. It’s my number one goal to help your business reach its goals and give you the best ROI possible.

If you are looking to have someone look after or help you with your Facebook, Google, YouTube ads please shot me a message and we can further discuss things. I look forward to hearing from you, have a great day!
(Remote)
Hi - I am looking to fill a Marketo Specialist role in the Philadelphia, PA area.  It's a long term (1-2 year), full time contract.   Pay is in the $60/hour range, but can be higher for the right individual.   DM me resumes or questions!  Thanks.
Hi! My name is Dustin and I'm a PPC Specialist with around 2 years of experience (mostly in Bing Ads since I work for Microsoft currently). I'm looking to branch out and get more experience on other platforms as well, so if anyone is looking for a PPCer in the Seattle area (I'm also open to remote work), I'd love to chat!
Looking for an **SEO/Adwords badass** with proven experience managing budgets of $250k + Bonus points if you have experience running YouTube ads!

&#x200B;

Location: U.S. or Canada (remote)

&#x200B;

Agency or freelancer
Not a blog or a podcast, but I love The Daily Carnage newsletter. I start my morning with it every day.

They also have a Facebook Group full of marketing pros that has been really helpful to me in the past when I need recommendations or advice.
Search engine journal, ad exchanger, ppc hero, and wordstream.
I like Unbounce's blog. Marketing Over Coffee is a solid podcast that helps me stay a little more up-to-date on tech.
KlientBoost.com blog and podcast
Mind your business podcast, adspresso, Jim Fortin Podcast (more mindset)
Found MarketingSherpa recently. A decent source for advanced marketers.
zest.is plugin for Google Chrome
Is there an app you guys use for blog updates or you just subscribe to them all old school?
So you got some music created as a great collection of content. Now you have to think of how you are going to distribute that content. A great way to do this is to talk to other artists and people who listen to that genre of music. Hanging with other artists in the community is huge. They already have followers and if you can establish yourself in that scene, you're golden.

The best way to go about that is to always go in with a soft intro when meeting other artists and to always start small. Maybe message a few local artists that are similar and see if they want to collaborate.

Also, have a vision for your brand and where you want to see things go. You never want to come off as a fan or a fake artist trying to piggy back off someones following.

Audiences are tired of being blasted sales or always being told what to do. Make things organic and find ways to connect with your audience. Engage with your followers and see what they like, don't like and what they do other then listen to your music.

You focused heavy on your content which is an expression of yourself.

Now it's time to start focusing on the audience, who they are and what they like

And remember, you are listening but not listening too hard.

The audience should never totally dictate what your brand does unless that is in your marketing strategy.

=)

Hope that helps! Good luck on your music!
To help you, can you please clarify what is GMB and what kind of irrelevant searches you get?
Trying RankMath on a few sites instead of Yoast. Haven't decided the winner yet though.
You left off Search Console. You use that to see what pages are winning and what terms people are using to get to your site.
„Page titles“? Plural? I would advice to start by optimizing exactly one page for this keyword/search intent. Not multiple ones.

When I look at the top ranking pages, this seems to be an informational search. Did you create the best guide for opening your pool in spring, yet? If not, do not bother with optimizing the page. You need to create the right content first.
Stories have a good chance to be the future of how we consume content online. This goes far beyond SEO and should be on the radar of all online marketers (content, paid, CRO, etc.).

If this AMP implementation is here to stay, no idea. But building know how now will not hurt. I would put 5% of my SEO effort into this and see if there is any traffic to get.
I started making way more money after becoming a consultant and charging on % ad spend for this reason.
I work in this field and I do not get a percentage of increased revenue.  I optimize the full funnel though and there are so many people and processes involved it would be unfair to say that I should get a cut of increases and not everyone else involved.  I believe I am well compensated through the standard bonus structure plus I like the stability.  What you’re describing is a sales style compensation model which can have big booms and busts that are often frankly out of your control.
Sometimes a performance based bonus. And maybe equity at a startup.
A percentage of revenue is very uncommon for employees. Maybe in a small startup or as a freelancer/agency.

Normally performances based bonuses have a number of goals (like +x% ROAS, +y% conversation rate in segment z, etc.) tied to a fixed amount of money.
My agency charges % of ad spend and then I get a salary that never budges, even when spend scales hundreds of thousands of dollars. 🙃 never heard of getting %of revenue increases in performance marketing though.
No.
only drawback of iPad is that not all tools are well optimized for iPad. I have been using an iPad for years now  but a decent 2-in-1 12-13 inch laptop should get the job done.
SEMRush and Search Console, although neither will help much if the site doesnt rank for anything.
Google keywords planner
You can use Semrush, Ahrefs or Search Console get your analysis finding keywords gaps to get new keyword ideas or related keywords from your competitor
Moz will help you to do that... you have explorer by using that you can find out that
Blatant self promotion: We (Searchmetrics) can do that by a) looking at current rankings (including search volume, CPC, etc.) or b) actually analyzing the content in your page. Both URL based of course.

Apart from SEMrush, all of the solutions listed above support only one of those approaches.
SEMrush has an On-Page SEO Checker for discussing pages. It's in the Projects section.
The best thing to use is your brain for that. Plan the content on your pages around ranking for a primary keyword and 2-3 LSI keywords. I typically don’t do more than that to keep the topic focused. Also make sure you have at least 1000 words of quality content (no filler), good tagging, schema markup, internal linking, sub 2 second page load time, etc
Only if you are getting paid for it.
It depends on your contract. Clients always request services that are outside the agency's scope of work and that they aren't paying for and that should never be the case because it'll never end.

I personally prefer that the agency create all the content since they will know what kind of visuals/copy will best fit the strategy while the client won't always know. The wrong content can be counterproductive and usually leads to the client getting pissed that they're not getting the results they want.
I’ve had to train clients. No vertical video, focus, etc. i ask them to take “too many” and usually get 1-3 that work.
I’ve worked at 2 different agencies and neither offered photography/videography services. Does your agency only work with local businesses? In my experience, almost all of my clients were located far enough away that this wouldn’t be feasible.
I offer it for my clients that are in real estate or BNBs. I find if they have the option to do everything in one place, they’ll go that route. The less links in the chain, the better (for the client).
I mean actual business pictures has immense impact on sales as it entails the element of social proof
I take photos and video as part of my services, the cost gets factored into the overall price.  It was frustrating for both me and my clients trying to get them to take acceptable photos / video as most have nothing more than their cell phone and don't understand proper lighting techniques.
I would say matters how good of photos you need and want for the strategy. If your really trying to be successful and want high quality photos and certain things captured in the photos than yes I would be taking my own.
What does the contract say?
Not so much may or may not be according to requirements
This is typically an upsell. Last agency I worked with had a X fee per creative built into their contract
Chuck contract, chuck every industry practice out of window. Client chose the DMA with a belief that you will deliver value. You chose your client with a belief that you can deliver value.

Clients will be lethargic and dodgy when you want them to do some work. But remember, pictures are important in branding and making that first impression. It makes the targeted customer take a closer look. Good picture helps you gain split second leverage when the ads is live. When the campaign is successful you retain a customer. 

Clients may provide great pictures. If that’s not the case, it’s DMA’s duty to CONVINCE how important the picture is to run a successful campaign and how it can impact the Ad ROI. Pictures can make or break a campaign. Convey this in the discussion stage and ask the client to provide best pictures. 

Mostly clients would hate to go through the struggle of finding a good photographer and all the process. If they are up for the game you got what you need. 

If not, DMA can have a list of partner photographers. It’s a win win. Photographer gets more gig from DMA and DMA can demand some discount so that they can show value to the Client.

Second way is, the DMA can hookup photographer and client. In return for reference and value, DMA can use the photographer on other projects.

Third way is to hire an in house photographer if you have such high demand. 

In my opinion, it’s better if DMA controls the photography needs of the client’s campaign. It would be a shame to watch bad photo from a client break DMA’s advertising effort.
Reverse image search on google is the first thing that comes to mind.
What is the content? Video, image, blog, social post?
Images: Google Reverse Image Search, TinEye

Text: CopyScape
SEMrush has a plagiarism checker with their SEO Writing Assistant tool.
Hoes can do that too?
If you're using active campaign then you could track opens by creating an automation that adds a contact to another list when they've opened an email. This list could then be synced with Facebook for conversion tracking and you wouldn't need to manually upload it.
Just export the openers as a file then create a custom audience using email address in Facebook and manager.

Assuming you have permission to do that
By engagement, by paid, with best SEO,  social Linking, sharing and boostups
You will find freelance work without experience if you work hard for it. And it might suck at the beginning: things will be harder than you thought and you won't know how to communicate with your first client or what to say but it's normal, just don't give up.

There are a bunch of other platforms out there you can try I am personally working on PeoplePerHour and I think it's better suited for you as a beginner because they have a system that encourages new freelancers to apply and find jobs and they offer free proposals you could use to apply to projects as opposed to Upwork who charge even for that.

That said, don't think much just start. Take some relatively simple projects in the beginning and  go for bigger challenges  as you gain experience and confidence.

You also need to understand that freelance success isn't much about skills but really about good communication and going the extra mile to help the clients solve their problems.

Think of yourself as an entrepreneur and do everything you can to make your client happy.

But don't sell yourself too short. Not all clients are equal. Some cheap clients you want to avoid because they're toxic and will suck life out of you avoid them at all cost. Know what the type of clients you want to work with. Attract them and build longlasting relationships with them
Make sure you have a portfolio of some work, whether paid/commissioned or not, and start a conversation with folks. You may have to pitch yourself a little bit, but you’re a marketer! Tell your story and have a hook, and you’ll do great.
Why would someone pay you?
Firstly you need to know what you want to specialise in then study it well. Next apply what you learnt by getting real clients offer to do it for free, get results for your client repeat and build yout portfolio until the market thinks you are worth something

Or 

Build your own blog or ecommerce store to gain experience and show what you capable of 

Its alot of hard work gd luck
I got my first copywriting job on Upwork without any experience. It was a $30 job for a blog post. It took me about 1-2 weeks to get my first client.

  
You have two ways to represent yourself to a client.

1) Your profile

2) Your proposal

  
At this point, you could have the best profile in the world but it doesn't mean anything until you get reviews. Just say what problem faces your client and say you how you will help them solve it. Keep it simple.  


Your proposal is what gets your foot in the door. Read each job post carefully. When you send the proposal, talk about what problem they're having and suggest how they can solve it. Basically provide value and not sell yourself. Your aim is to get a response.

&#x200B;

Also, if you can create a sample that's like what they are looking for (for example, if they need email marketing help for ecommerce sales, write an ecommerce sales letter) that provides value. Don't go crazy, just enough to show your skills.  


Doing that every proposal will sharpen your own digital marketing skills.  


Honestly, Upwork is great for experience but I'd start looking elsewhere if you really want to dive into freelance work.
You can try feedly by just adding the blogs or websites you want to follow and it will collate all the content in a feed for you.
I use Google Alerts, and IFTTT recipes for Twitter and Reddit keyword search which curates into daily email digests.
I use an RSS feed to keep up with websites on a daily basis, and I use Twitter and Instagram as a ‘fun’ way to consume whatever brain and eye candy is posted.
go for feedly
Important news always pops up in either my Facebook or Twitter feed. Especially on Twitter I make sure to have a well curated list of accounts I follow.
Just think of some honest questions, job interviews are a two way street you should make sure its the right company for you also.

Be really careful trying to use questions to 'wow' an interviewer, it has potential to backfire. 

Ask about ares that matter to you, what are the specific areas that interest you about SEO and ask how the role will involve these aspects.
Ask about career progression, training, what is the team like etc.
Its a very common question asked to SEO person that why you want to work in SEO 

then 1>what is search engine?

2>which type of project you handle before?

3>Your before knowledge in digital marketing

I hope it will help you,Best luck to your interview.
If they don’t ask you to sign any conflict of interest document, you’re good. If they do, it’ll be up to you to decide if they extra money is worth not being able to work with other potential clients in the same industry. 

I’ve done the exact thing you’re doing and I’ve only had 1 situation like this, and it was for a Law Firm. So I understood the conflict of interest. Although it was only for a specific type of law, so it wasn’t a big deal for me.
If you aren't signing anything that states otherwise in contracts, do what you want! Good luck (:
Do what you want. There's no such thing as conflict of interest in digital marketing.
Legally, if you din´t have to sign any "no competition clause" or something like that, then you are all set. Morally I wouldn´t do it, but it´s your call.
That's going to be it in a nutshell. There will be good info in the $500/$3k/$25k+ course you'd eventually be convinced in to taking but that info is free on the internet. Just go find it yourself.
No it’s 100% BS, avoid it
Just depends, honestly. I usually do $300/week for the whole campaign, $100 for each ad set. The Ads Manager has a pretty helpful Split Test option when setting up campaigns, maybe start there? But this is how I do it -

&#x200B;

For this example we're using 3 ad sets within 1 campaign:

1. Create a campaign for whatever your target may be (leads, traffic, engagements). Within that campaign, create 3 different ads sets, you will use these to test.
2. Create 3 different versions of an ad creative.
3. Create 3 different versions of ad copy.
4. Start all buy using the same ad creatives across all 3 ad sets, but using the 3 different versions of ad copy you have previously.
5. Let this run for a week to see if you have ample data. You will be able to see which creative is performing best.
6. Take the best performing ad copy, use it on all 3 ad sets, and change the creatives to the 3 different ones you previously created.
7. Let this run for a week to see if you have ample data to make a data driven decision. If not, let it run another week.
8. At the end of this you will have the best performing ad copy, matched with the best performing image so that you can increase the budget on a campaign that has the data to show this is the "best version".
9. You can do this with audience as well, and any other little detail you'd like to test.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps!
I would do data science or analytics at the very least. You can get into digital marketing but data science and analytics are very sought after positions, and future machine learning (5-10 years) will replace a lot of the data entry type jobs like digital media buyers, and other entry level digital marketing jobs. Stay ahead of the trends, my friend.
I’ve worked with a couple kids who have digital marketing degrees. I’d rather hire a jr employee with an English degree or no degree at all because at least that kid won’t think he knows stuff.
I wouldn’t recommend it. I wish I hadn’t gotten a degree in this field because I’ve had to do continuing education. If you do then I would go for traditional marketing or something technology related.
I'm a digital marketer ( my degree is in Communication ) but I didn't receive any digital marketing training until after school. I found an entry level job at a Facebook marketing agency via Upwork. The training I got there was faster, cheaper, and way more comprehensive than I would've gotten in school. Plus I was working with tons of real clients every day.

&#x200B;

I now run a marketing department for a multi-million dollar company but both my FB ads experience AND my degree got me in the door (plus a ton of hard work and self-teaching—Udemy has been a great resource). I wish I had spent more of my time in classes related to data and analytics. They are critical for any marketing role these days so I'd seriously recommend sharpening those skills! They'll take you far.
I did a comms degree (majoring in journalism) and that seems to benefit me more than a straight marketing degree. I did a bunch of marketing subjects, but I also know how to write - that’s a tougher skill to be able to glean from a job interview, but a journalism degree? They know I can write well.

Depends on the type of job you’re going for, but a whole marketing degree doesn’t sound flexible enough, and keep in mind that what you’re taught in a digital marketing subject WILL be slightly behind the times. When you finish your degree, the game will have changed. 

Short courses could be another option.
A marketing degree will teach you concepts. As a Kinesiology major in marketing, does it matter? I
Think you could get beyond that. One of my good friends in my company is one of the smartest people I know and had NO degree. It's the time and effort he's put in on the side and during the jobs he's landed.
Degrees can open the door, but aren't totally necessary. 

If you can demonstrate knowledge, you'll be fine but it does take a lot of effort
Getting a degree in graphic design or videography may be more beneficial.
Any reason you couldn’t use a service like LastPass to share passwords without actually knowing the password? And then, if things go astray he would just remove your access
 

He had some concern with the 1099/Independent Contractor Agreement - he's primarily concerned with having to change his passwords and accounts if I were to leave (his last SEO guy did weird things with his websites and he said it was a nightmare to fix it after he left). Have you had clients express this concern to you? How did you come to an agreement? 

try to make it work on his favor. Make him believe he is in full control and that shouldnt be a problem
Hey, couldn´t help but reading about what you said on the 1099/Independent Contractor Agreement. I´m with an international digital media agency and we operate in Europe and South America and we´re looking into going back to the US (I was raised there actually), so I was wondering about what that contract considers in its contents. Would you mind sharing a few things (not the customer´s classified info, of course), but just the standard info?
That's a great question, hahaha. Also if anyone has any stock picks (something like amazon in 1999) let me know!
Business Intelligence ( Look up SQL, R, Tableau), Product Marketing, Salesforce...
Account Based Marketing / ABM
Business intelligence and proper sales attribution/data management. It has a barrier to entry and every other type of marketing can benefit from it so I think this is a big one.

Also, within influencer marketing there is live streaming which people are still figuring out. Influencer marketing as a whole is still relatively young- along with podcast advertising. Seeing how this progressing (I personally think there will be a transition to a CPA model). 

Then there are platforms that still will grow and improve: Reddit (?), Pinterest, Amazon paid to name a few
I would say 1:1 personal marketing is becoming more of a trend, but the tools to achieve this are still quite complex so not many digital marketers are skilled in this area.
Facebook messenger bot marketing
Podcasts.
I mean everyone knows content marketing but I feel it fits here
Programmatic
Email marketing/Inbox marketing
IMO, the next biggest Digital Trend of 2019 are:

Data Analysis | Machine Learning | Artificial Intelligence

Jobs concerning computational Challenges, to more importantly, the moral and philosophical ramifications this advanced technology will have; specifically, Societal Ramifications endured from misuse & abuse.
Real Time Marketing Management (RTMM). Very few people know what it is and very few companies can afford it. The ones investing in this will be the ones on top in a few years.
sendgrid
Mandrill, mailgun
Yes, dead easy using the free Google Analytics connector.

Connect the data source, then create a table of pages + hits.

Then apply a filter to that table for path contains /faq/ (or whatever the permalink is for your faq Pages.

Lastly, in the top menu to the right is a scheduling icon (it’s quite new, introduced Mar or April). Choose the day + people to receive it by email and you’re all set.

Feel free to msg me if you get stuck!
What kind of positions are you looking for? If you've had one internship you should probably be looming for entry level positions (Just in case you're not). 

Also you might benefit from speaking with a recruiter who can give you tips on enhancing your resume and making sure it's perfect for your market and the area you live in. Everywhere has different expectations for a resume.
Send me your resume by PM. I work in Digital Marketing and could give you some pointers and possibly refer you to some recruiting agencies.
I see gambling offers all over email affiliate networks, there are tons of companies with databases that are good for that kind of thing and email/sms is a good way to reach them since there's fewer restrictions (geo dependent)
The no response is likely a no. Reddit ad department lags behind laws. They do not allow CBD links by reddit users and claim no CBD ads allowed. I am also not certain people come here to see or be reached by ads.   


OpenX is was pretty good but it has been a bit since I worked with them. I did traffic a lot of Draftking ads via them and never an issue even when Draftkings had legal issues.
Why not grow your organic traffic with search engine optimization in the meantime?

You already have major players in advertisement and options like reddit and linkedin really doesnt do much for you at this point
Does it work for long run?
Internal linking does help a bit, but not by much. You need to really build quality backlinks to you website to boost your rankings. On-page optimization can only get you so far.

PM me if you want to talk more about it
Is the company really worth all the effort? Does the job excite you? Are the benefits awesome? If the answer is no..maybe you should look elsewhere. I tend to avoid companies that ask a lot of me in the interview process unless I desperately want the job.
 
Yes because you don't have enough data as to budget and CVR
No because they might no nothing about digital marketing and you can educate them in that field. This can be lucrative for you.
Don’t cancel.

This is a strange request. Hard to build a plan w/o data. You need to see what works and what doesn’t before you pit a plan together. You need goals and budgets to put specifics together. 

Nonetheless, you gain nothing by not showing up. Put something cookie-cutter together, and be prepared to ask them a bunch of questions about what they currently do during the interview. If they say “this and that” doesn’t apply to our business, you explain that this top-level plan is just that. Adjustments are essential and you can only make those when you have sufficient data and knowledge of their business. 

They shouldn’t ask for that, but they did. Show up, do your best, and learn something.
Definitely go. My company always asks marketers to prepare a presentation like this with little to no information provided. They are likely not looking for you to nail the strategy, but more likely looking for how you react under stress and how you approach the situation. Good luck!
Thanks for all the advice, everyone.

Having looked at the company’s current materials, it’s my lack of graphic design skills that are concerning me now.
The questions I would ask yourself - 

1. Is this company legit? I've seen lots of companies scam info and ideas this way, particularly those from China.  

2. What level is this position? Understand that, and understand what you are going to be contributing at the level and tailor your answers that way. 

* VP - Strategy, ROI, 3 and 5 year vision
* Director - Results and Employee Management
* Manager - Execution 
* Assistant/Associate/Coordinator - Understanding of emerging platforms. 

Marketing is often fake it until you make it... the ground shifts and correlation of campaigns is difficult. We are the ultimate, failure is an orphan, success has many fathers field. 

If you trust the company, do the work and get the reps.
If I really wanted the job I would talk through three slides about what parts of digital marketing go where in the funnel then recommend that we do all of it well.

If I didn’t really want the job I’d tell them to get bent over the phone, or go for bonus points by presenting my marketing funnel pitch with offensive memes as background images.
A bit more context:

I’ve been looking to move to a different company for years but also suffer from depression and anxiety. I’ve previously attended interviews but, having been rejected, my mood would become so low that I’d stop applying for several months.

In December, my wife and I had our second child and I started making a concerted effort to move on. I’ve been to 20+ interviews since and haven’t received a single offer.

My confidence is currently at rock bottom and I don’t think I’m capable of doing a good job anywhere. This is why I’m considering cancelling. As pathetic as it might sound, I’m frightened of failing again.
Contact Support via your Ads Manager. They much more likely to help people that spend money on their platform, sadly. They're almost always helpful, and if they can't be they will get someone to email that will be able to help.
I worked out a way to do a complete name change. Rather not post it publicly so PM me and I'll tell you what I did.
I don’t know for sure, but I think when you have more than 2000 fans (or something) you actually need to contact the Facebook support.
1. If he has Digital Graphics experience, let him do some test runs for creatives.
2. Get him to enroll in the Google Marketing Course so that he can learn the "ins and out" of Google. If he will be focusing on Digital Marketing, this is essential to learn one way or another.
3. Do the same for Facebook Blueprint. It is a MUST to learn Facebook's Ads Manager, and to be good at it. There's tons of valuable knowledge he'll gain from these classes starting out.
4. Let him shadow some of your Marketing Agents. Some of the best skills can't be learned by books and classes. He'll be able to see the interaction between client and agency, which is vital. Pitching ideas, speaking "their language", giving them insight on how their campaign(s) are doing, etc.
5. Let him put together some "test" campaigns to show ideas he may have, and how closely they are related to a current campaign y'all are running. He'll be able to see the differences between a season digital marketing vet, and a newb. It's nice to see what you could've done different and why.

Just a few ideas that I would've liked as a young grom in the marketing world.
the first rule of digital marketing is you don't talk about digital marketing
I'd like to propose a set of Rules for Digital Marketing (Agency Edition)

1) The creed of a planner: RFP, Powerpoint, billing

2) See what worked then adjust the goalposts

3) Readers are sheep and any minor change to the website will result with them wandering off the page (to complain on twitter)

4) Without your clients, you are nothing (see 6)

5) Clickfunnels is garbage, though the client will refer to them frequently during all negotiations

6) Client happiness is the only metric which counts

7) The plan is only as good as the product (and screenshot quality of the RFP's)

8) We aren't crabs in a barrel (excluding the account team), we're dolphins in a pub 

9) The rules change frequently and often, but the game remains the same... is a fancy way of saying that you'll be working in Excel most of the day

10) Do the right thing and don't be evil (but define "evil" as loosely as Google does)
Why is Clickfunnels garbage? (Newbie here)
Enlighten me about Clickfunnels
Number 6. So hard to convince clients of that.
**These 10 rules will help you build a base that will be useful to your customers, to your brand.**

**1. Listen:** Succeeding in social networks and content marketing requires listening more and speaking less. Therefore, read the online content of your target audience and participate in discussions to learn what is important to your followers. Only then you can create content and generate conversations that provide them with something valuable. 

**2. Focus your attention:** It is better to specialize in two or three networks to be inefficient in all. With a content marketing strategy to build a brand you have more opportunities to succeed than with one that pretends to be everything for everyone. 

**3. Produce less but quality contents:** It is better to have a few thousand online connections that read, share and discuss your content with their own audiences, than 1,00,000 connections that disappear after connecting with you for the first time. 

**4. Be patient:** The success of social networks and digital marketing, content do not happen overnight. Although it is possible to catch a lightning bolt in a bottle, it is likely that you will need to commit long term to achieve results. The secret lies in finding the appropriate language for your audience. 

**5. Create unique content:** The audiovisual experience and the generation of exemplary texts are the basis for mastering online spaces. If you publish great and quality content and you work to build an audience of first rate followers - exemplary people who follow you and care about you - they will share it with their circles on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, their own blogs and more. . Sharing and discussing your content opens new access points for search engines such as Google to locate it using keywords. 

**6. Be influential:** Take time to find out who (in your market) are the most popular, followed and heard online. Connect with these people and work to build relationships with them. If you step on their radar as an authority or as a relevant source of useful information, they may share your content with their own followers, which could put you and your business at the forefront of a huge new audience. 

**7. Add value:** If you spend all your time on social networks directly promoting your products and services, people will stop listening to you. These tools are based on the ability to maintain an interesting conversation. Add value to your talk by creating fabulous content and developing relationships with those who exert influence online. Over time, these people will become catalysts of word-of-mouth marketing.

**8. Make them recognize you:** You would not ignore someone who approached you in person, so do not do it online. Building relationships is one of the most important elements when it comes to the success of marketing in social networks, so always respond to every user that approaches you. If you are cordial and participative in the dialogue with your client, he will recognize and divulge your brand through his own channels. 

**9. Become accessible:** Do not publish your content and then disappear. Stay available for your audience. That means you need to post content and participate in conversations consistently. Online followers can be fickle and will not hesitate to replace you if you disappear for weeks or months. Precisely, social media serves to satisfy the need for communication and to ensure the presence of the brand at all times. Your voice must be available at every moment that is required. 

**10. Share content from others:** You can not expect others to share your content and talk about you if you do not do the same for them. A part of the time you spend on social networks should be used to share and talk about what others publish. This diversifies your information offer and satisfies the need for disclosure of your audience, guaranteeing your loyalty.

&#x200B;

Thanks.
use Google analytics
You can use UTM tags to track in Analytics.
You're right about follower count, it's not the best metric... a bit more of a vanity metric in my opinion but at least it indicates that your reach is growing.   


Aside from engagement, you should have Google Analytics set up to determine the acquisition numbers from Instagram. You'll be able to get the number of link clicks from your IG bio. Then you can set up goals (i.e. set up an account, bought a product) to get exact conversion rate numbers.  


I think you need to use a mix of original content and content from others. Original content makes your brand more transparent and personable. This is also where making original IG stories becomes super useful as well. So if you reach a certain number of followers (forgot how many), you can include links to your products in the stories. You can also turn your IG page into e-commerce functionality as well.   


Hope that helps!
Get results for people and build a portfolio, and then you should have clients lining up to work with you. The issue you face is everyone and their mother thinks they can launch a PPC/Facebook ads service on the site after doing a bull shit training, and then faking it till they make it. 

&#x200B;

I have 15 clients and they get offers from people all the time who do Facebook Ads/PPC and 99.9% of them are all full of shit, so my advice is since you have some experience already it sounds like, build a portfolio or way to convey that level of practionership to prospects.
Your experience is your connection. Local businesses should be easy to approach, and freelancer sites like Fiverr and UpWork will build up your 

Tread carefully though, if you are employed full time you might struggle dealing with your own clients. What happens when a client wants to discuss something while you're at work or you need to edit a campaign? I can't see your current employer letting you freelance on the side.
Networking. Reaching out. Offering services.

Then there is also, fiverr, upwork.

You can use google my business app to find local business as well.

Moreover, carry a personality that people trust. More often than not, people want a digital marketing consultant. Lots of business owners will automatically want to connect with you and if you impress them enough, you might be hired. 

Cheers!
Be honest about what you can offer. Most clients skeptical of people who promise instant or phenomenal results - just be candid.

Also make sure your contract doesn't include a non-competitor clause/find out if your work culture prohibits that kind of thing. Last thing you want is to lose your job while trying to brand out.
Hey mate just a small point: you're not dropping off business cards, you're meeting potential decision makers and finding out how you can help them solve problems. The card won't do the talking, so don't rely on it to have any effect once you've left. Make sure you connect with someone, over something, and let them know you'll be back in touch again. I'll let someone else more qualified answer your other questions, but as an introvert I recognised/assumed/projected that there might be some propensity towards "drop and run" with those cards! People buy people, so connect as best you can. Good luck.
Regarding what you should do if the manager isn't there:

Make whoever you're talking to feel like they would be really fucking up if they didn't pass the info on to someone higher up.

Talk about what others are doing or even their competitors if you can do the research. Go to them with facts, not speculation.
"In God we trust, everybody else bring data"

That said, make great presentations. 

If possible make presentations with after effects and leave the link with your business card.

Trim the data to the essentials: lead generation, SEO, CPC, CRO etc. 

Then present the projects and the challenges. Some people might be bullish while others are bearish, you need the ones which are compatible with your tactics, budget, industry etc.

Marketing is connecting the service/product with the chosen audience. That should include you, meaning you need to be the connector with the business you like and/or are compatible with. There will be less friction. 

Hope it helps and best of luck to you.
I’d also love really like to know the answers to these questions :)
Stagger a reach out on multiple channels....LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook...the more ways that you're 'connected' with them, the more often you/your brand will pop up and remind them of your existence. Obviously dont bombard them and creep them out!
I started in sales to get into the industry.
 It’d help to get experience doing marketing on small projects with people you already know or people they know. A lot of people have at least 1 entrepreneurial type in their circle.
I majored in something different but it’s worked out for me. 

The company I work for doesn’t care at all about education as long as you have the skills and some work history. 

You may have to work for free for a bit before you break in. I did, anyway.
Start a blog, get some traffic going.  Doesn't necessarily have to be SEO traffic as that can take awhile, just go to where people are hanging out and link to your posts.  Get some traffic and some quick wins.

Present that information effectively, the lessons learned and you'll probably get a job soon.
internship is the best way to go and learn how everything works in the side as well. within a year you will be a pro, assuming that you learnt from correct knowledge and agency
Honestly, you could pay a regular WordPress developer for this if you don't want to do it yourself. I'm a developer, who dabbles in marketing and this isn't a super difficult task in most cases, but a bit time consuming. 

The cheapest and fastest thing you could do is install a caching plugin like W3 Total Cache. Check out a tutorial for setting it up (I'm new here so I probably can't post links). W3TC can cache pages and database results. In most cases, that will solve your problems. 

If your pages aren't loading in under 3 seconds, you can try switching to one of the default WordPress themes. E.g. TwentyNineteen. Test your speed again here. 

If it's still slow after that, then try disabling your plugins and enabling one by one while running speed tests. 

If all of that fails, it could be your web server host. 

Hope that helps.
you can pay me :) ill even automate the process for you so that you can set and forget
You need Seo and SEM.
I help agencies/businesses who want to outsource their link building, here are my tips on how to build backlinks:  


1. Find websites that are relevant to your client that are high quality and authoritative. For example, if your client is selling CBD oil, try and CBD/Cannabis related websites.
2. Find the emails of these websites.
3. Create exceptional content for your client's website, for example, 'The Ultimate CBD Oil Guide'. 
4. Reach out to the websites you found and encourage them to link to your 'resource'. If they say no, offer to create a guest post for their website that would be suitable for their audience and include your clients link in the post.
5. Make sure any link built using guest posts are 'do follow'.
6. Be prepared for most sites to reject your offers or ask for a publication fee.  


In addition to the above, I'd recommend creating relevant directory listings for your client and a few blog comments to diversify your links.  


To be honest, I'm unsure if you know enough to be providing SEO a service and are currently undercharging the client for SEO. I'd recommend looking for a company to help you out on this.  


What other questions about SEO /link building did you have?
If you have a limited budget, then you should start building backlinks on high-authority sites. What do I mean by that? Profile links, web 2.0's, social bookmarks, article submissions, etc.

Backlink from high-authority sites will give you that backlink diversity for SEO and will give you a nice link juice.

If you don't know where to start, check out **RankdSEO backlink database**. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of high-authority websites.

There are more than 270 guides at the moment. And a list of 1400+ websites that accept guest posts.
The basic backlinks are your local business directories, but these have its limits.

Outside of that, almost free way is to build PBN for yourself. But this is difficult and time consuming to setup.

Another way to do it is to ask for a guest post on a popular blog with high DA. But they will most likely say to cough up expensive money.

So the best way is to actually buy links of high TF 15-25+. But I would avoid fiverr and all these marketplaces because they really do not work

PM me and I can provide you with these if you wish
Good question. Off-page SEO is tricky and complicated, and I don't understand a lot of that stuff myself.

  
What I can tell you is that if you're doing any content stuff then a good way to get SEO backlinks is to pitch your content to bloggers, journalists and freelance writers. The object is to pitch them your content so they write about you and link back to your website.

&#x200B;

Try researching a list of 100 or so press leads and pitching them with a personalized email sequence. Lead with telling them how you found their work and how much you enjoyed it. Then suggest a mutually beneficial collaboration which results in a backlink to your website.

&#x200B;

Highlight how they would benefit from the exchange, and use the words "you/your" at least 5 times for every time you say "me/I". Make it about ***them***.

&#x200B;

Think of it like a mad lib. It'll look something like this.

&#x200B;

SBJ: Hi {{first name}}, I  found your article on {{publication}} and want to collaborate!

&#x200B;

Body: Hi {{first name}},

&#x200B;

I found your article {{article title}} on {{publication}} and I love your coverage of {{topic/beat/coverage area}}.

&#x200B;

I was wondering, have you ever noticed how {{this trend is happening}}? I wrote about this on my blog, and it may be a good resource for you when you do your next article on {{topic}}! Here, check it out at {{link to your blog}}.

&#x200B;

Would you be interested in using it as a reference? Let's set up a time in the next week and we'll talk about it!

&#x200B;

Cheers,

&#x200B;

Your name

{{Your blog/company logo goes here}}

&#x200B;

Hope that helps!
Ooo. Video content works great.

&#x200B;

My suggestion is that you repurpose and incorporate his video content for every stage of your funnel. 

&#x200B;

For example, the Facebook ads use videos explaining what your brother's service is. 

&#x200B;

Ads lead to a landing page which have examples of e-invites or a slideshow different e-invite videos spliced together. 

&#x200B;

Lead magnet is a free trial or discounted subscription in return for an email sign-up. 

&#x200B;

Weekly newsletters with video content are sent to the emails to nurture the leads the ads/landing page have brought you, with CTA leading to the website where you buy the thing.

&#x200B;

So funnel is: Facebook ads > Landing page > Weekly emails > Purchasing page. And there are videos at every step.

  
Does that help?
Really love this write-up, including the metaphor! Top one👌🏼
Blasphemy! Heretics!
Awesome piece. 

Priests demand more wisdom of light.
I don't mean to be a "heretic" but I think one of the biggest things lost is "what is acceptable content" & "real SEO."  You could ask one SEO'er and they will scream to the gods: it is "long form content with 3K plus words on a page", another may say "Q & A style!". The fact is many posts are all about what "Google wants you to do".  But then there is the reality of what you should really be doing.

&#x200B;

You have the "purists" that follow the holy grail of the "google bible", then you have the "sinners", the ones figuring out the real truth behind the church.  In the end, the balance needs to be found between the two, because to be honest, going full religious fanatic will actually yield you very little results.

&#x200B;

There are hundreds of thousands if not millions of websites all trying to be perfect google angels, when in reality, it is the demons reaping the benefits, faster & quicker.

&#x200B;

I am sure many want to follow the church of Google by its written word, but we all know the real secret for SEO is what is in the dark corners & shadows.   The things the church does not want you to really know.  😉
I like the way you explain everything.keep going
How big revenue wise? What are their long term plans? Brick and mortar? Loyalty programs? Anything unique they want to do with their customer experience? Do they offer subscriptions to their product? Will they want a mobile app or simply mobile responsive? What back end financial systems are they operating on?

Shopify+
Bug commerce
Magento
SF Commerce Cloud

All just some places to start poking around.
Others may differ, but in the UK I've found more success for me and my clients not with lead ads but creating an ad that directs to a landing page to capture lead information.  


When I've done A/B tests on this much higher conversion rates and lower CPL guiding to a landing page.  
Anecdotally perhaps as people want to *feel* like they are researching more/ trusting a brand more when visiting a website instead of just tapping and entering an email direct on Facebook.  


Also for B2B the quality of emails captured was lower as often if autofilled it was personal emails.

&#x200B;

In terms of asking for examples and the copy and the image, make it unique to YOU. Make it related to the pain points and struggles of your target audience and GIVE them something in exchange for their email. Don't expect loads of leads flooding in without giving them anything in return.  


In terms of examples, literally the next one you see from a marketing agency/agency owner/ business guru, actually stop and process their copy and video and hook of their offer, fill out the details and see what happens post-click in terms of their marketing to you.  


But even more than that Facebook will have 'tagged you as 'relevant' for those sort of ads. So you can keep seeing the good, the bad and the fucking terrible on your feed.
It all depends on industry and buyer's persona. 

Do a/b testing. Keep doing what is working and keep tweaking what is not performing well.

You will learn a lot by trail and errors.

Good luck
You may want to consider your audience as a whole.  Granted, Facebook has some of the best reach, it does not perform well in all markets.  Facebook tends to do much much better on a b2c then b2b as a side note. Business consumers tend to research and compare a lot more; With that said certain b2b services do very well.  I would investigate the audiences tab and search specific interests of your b2b potential prospects and make sure there is enough interest on the platform for it.  

&#x200B;

If you are having trouble converting leads, another route is foregoing direct page ads, building a community around the interests, creating a page likes campaign, then inviting those likes to join your community.  Then run promotions within the group.  You simply just need to build the community following first.  With the new changes to Facebook recently, this is probably one of the best routes to go at the moment.

&#x200B;

Or you can select a platform specifically for b2b like linkedin.  hope this helps you with your future marketing company.  

&#x200B;

As for design, you have to base this once again on the audience you want to show the ad to.  Do the psychological research on these interest groups and find out what that interest group is willing to click on.  Example: Interests groups related to coupons react really well to big buttons on the ad with price off or discount percentage with words like "limited time", "only while supplies last" with the product image in the background.  Hiring good designers is key to create engaging ads.
Since you have no budget, cold email or cold calling is the only way to go.

But cold emailing is particularly difficult.
SEO / PPC.... if people are researching the topics you are writing about then seems like that should work for inbound demand (assuming there is demand)
PPC will be your fastest way, SEO can work if you can find less competitive, longer tail search terms to go after.   Figure out what people are likely searching in google and then find terms that you can rank for that aren’t crazy competitive.
Best way is to just scrape it off the net but it is time consuming to sift and compile the data.

Cold emailing is a problem also because of so may restrictions that need to be followed for high deliverability.

Creating a FB agency is easy. As you possibly noticed, it is the client acquisition that is the hardest to do. If you are serious about this, then PM me
I’ve been drinking, but no.
Yes easy to tweak for cheap CPMs but who cares if those aren’t converting 😌😌😌 it’s about creative, ROAS, scale, car, etc so again, drinking but no
Just showing CPM is REALLY fishy. Generally, to reach more apt customers you have to spend more. My guess is they're blasting their ads worldwide with little to no regard for who's seeing it, which drives the CPM down, but will definitely also lead to terrible other KPIs.
Super opaque and red flags shooting up for me. Proceed with caution, or better, don’t proceed.
Yeah umm, no. 

Each campaign has different goals (pipeline build, conversions, yadda...). It could be growth in a particular market. Success in that case wouldn’t be CPM at all. 

Walk away. Or challenge them on their metrics.
I’ve just started diving into the Zapier integration platform for various purposes. I’ve seen multiple SMS options that will integrate with Facebook Lead Ads on their paid plans. Could be a good place to start looking.
You can do this multiple ways, but the easiest would be in Zapier to integrate your Facebook Lead account, use a new submission as the trigger, and then make the action send a SMS to the define phone number.

&#x200B;

You can also do this using Hubspot or Active Campaign if you potentially use them as your CRM.
Zapier. It's a fucking life saver.
Target the venues or locations where they hold sports events if you can't target them directly.
Are you using a CRM or any type of marketing automation software?
You’re not referring to a “media buyer” are you?
Ad exchange? DSP? Arbitrage? Syndication?
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/ppc] [Google trends keyword research match types?](https://www.reddit.com/r/PPC/comments/bkbbec/google_trends_keyword_research_match_types/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
It is broad match
Google text ad spend decreasing but dynamic search ads and responsive search ads increasing. 

Doesn’t mean less spending on google ads, just mean people are moving away from text ads and moving toward dynamic and responsive.
ppc will never be gone until Google is gone. 70% of their revenue comes from Google ads.
More conversational marketing
Really interesting insights. Thanks for sharing OP. It has got me excited to be honest.
Thanks for the sharing.....

 \* Voice Search also trends in Digital Marketing
As someone working in the industry for (maybe too) many years this year's trend seems to be going back to basics.

As everyone is competing for the best ad palcement, if you don't get it you have to start making the most out of what you get so making campaigns things that are actually good and engaging while making the most out of what you have will be the "trend".

&#x200B;

That an personalisation through behavioural tareting using predictive analytics to create these campaigns in the first place..haha
 

*- DuckDuckGo outpacing other search engines in terms of growth, but still relatively small* 

&#x200B;

The growth has been rapid and exponential. It's obvious why.  If the founder said he was going to take on the Gaints, who would have not made fun of him.
If you want local traffic, start with Googles local business and Yelp, both are free.   Most people use their mobile phones when they're out and about looking for liquor, your store will show up on google if they're in the area.

Social Media will not help you.  liquor stores are everywhere and all the same.  People are not loyal to one store, they'll go where its closes. So 99% of your business will be from locals.

If you want to pay, you could make a facebook page and target your local audience.
Digital marketing definitely works. 

I’d assume branding your store would be your best interest. 

You want your store and what you offer to stand out. 

Social media ads will work and so will email marketing. 

I’d make sure your store is easily found on Google when searching businesses and don’t bother with Yelp. 

Yelp is a waste of money and doesn’t have your best interest in mind. 

Focus on your unique selling point and utilize this for advertising. 

Focus on branding your store, getting your name out.

Utilize social media to post organically and gain a following. 

Digital marketing works and if you’re not doing it, you’re losing. 

—
Mike

PS: I’ll speak plainly here... Who gives a fxck if there’s a liquor store on every corner. Don’t play or fall in to the competition game. What matters most is your personal brand, your unique offer, and how you communicate that to the market. Ever wonder why some liquor stores do better then others? I can bet they’re doing some form of marketing also.
Being a liquor store I imagine tracking your conversions and ROI is going to be slightly different. 

You could run a Facebook ad campaign with a special discount offer, say 5% off any purchase if they quote a special code / word at the checkout. 

Now you’ll know which campaigns are performing best based on which codes are quoted.
Content marketing can be tied in to brand marketing. (Mainly for blogging or writing articles)

Brand copywriting and direct response would be the way to go. 

—
Mike
There are several ways you can track brick and mortar. Since this is a liquor store, promoting the consumption of alcohol on Social Media is treading in some tricky waters.

&#x200B;

I would use a system like Clover (or similar) to create a loyalty base. They have built in marketing options (like email and SMS) to draw back your customers in and maintain a loyalty (obviously without turning them into alcoholics haha).

&#x200B;

Also, Google MyBusiness will be your best friend here. If you give your current/new customers an incentive to leave reviews on your Google MyBusiness Listing, and you keep it up to date, you will see an increase in traffic. Keeping your website up to date and posting about new events or waiting lists on high end spirits/wines would be effective, which you could also incorporate into your Google MyBusiness listing. 

&#x200B;

I don't know where you live, but if they allow alcohol delivery, I would DEFINITELY do it. I'm in South Florida and you can get alcohol delivered on on one of the "food" delivery apps. Can't remember which one, BUT....keeping your product at a good price and not jack up your delivery fee would increase your awareness and loyalty.
Depending on your location, I would register with one of the delivery apps as well as google local business listing. That’s the 2 I would think that people commonly see on a daily basis.
Google ads will work the best for you, BUT it needs to be setup professionally.

And I mean professionally.

The free listings like GMB and yelp take ages to build momentum and possibly never, if you do not optimize it with contents all the time. The problem with Google 3 snack pack is that your actual website needs to be seriously SEO optimized to show up in the top for major keywords.

PM me if you want to discuss more about it.
No.
No. But I do feel it sometimes helps. For some candidates that I see, they include their portfolio which includes projects that they have done in the past. Having a strong online presence is kind of your portfolio. Shows your creativity and copywriting skills is your post are written well.
Genuine question, why do you want to work in the space if you don’t participate in it? 

Don’t get me wrong I neglect my own SM presence because I do it for work, but I do still have all of them so I can better understand what’s going on from a user perspective.
Is it an issue that you don't have an accounts on these platforms? No. 

But only if you have in-depth knowledge about how to create and produced successful campaigns through the said platforms. If you don't have accounts with these platforms, you probably don't have in-depth knowledge on how things like the Ads Manager work for creating campaigns. And that would be the issue here.
Nah bro unless you’re an influencer
No. Even if you did you should keep in private.
Most are saying No but let me be devil's advocate. I do look at social media presence but not how you think. I see it as extended learning. Show me you leverage tools like social to study the competiton/industry, understand trends, best practices, breaking news, rumor reports, etc
No but it helps
See,Its not compulsion that you have to make social media presence to get job in digital marketing,as in digital marketing there are many channels like SEO,PPC,Email marketing,SMM ,you have to decide first in which channel you want to be expert. but yes it will increase you experience to work in digital marketing,as digital marketer should be updated in all such sites which gives new trends every day to work in this industry.
Nope not at all. I use social media for work but not really personally. They don’t care about that. You can learn trends at any time
I must say you should have an understanding of the social media and how it's works. trust me it's not tough. keep an eye on each social media channel and understand how marketing works there. Good luck
No, but having a good social media presence helps you to showcase your abilities to the employer.
I’m head of digital advertising department and recently needed to hire two new team members. I cant say that their social media presence was critical, but it was still important. 

For example, I need my advertisers to be smart and witty, not only knowing tools and understanding data. They have to work with graphic design teams, write copy for ads tailored to specific channel. So I looked around their social media accounts a little bit before making a decision. 

Also, for me one of the most important thing is how new member will fit in my team. And having a snoop on social media can help you estimate if persons characteristics will fit your group dynamic.
I think its important to have a social media presence. You are into digital marketing, right? Shouldn't you be good in sharing seeing you are in a field where sharing is obviously a major part of the deal?
You need at least 5K followers on each platform to get remotely close to landing a job in DM. Good luck my friend.
Since there are already 13 different Facebook Pages, you probably want to create 13 Instagram accounts as well because they are owned by Facebook and that may simplify posts/ads for each location and personalize to their target market in that region. 

If you are going to be sole contributor to Instagram, then save yourself and stick to one account. 🙂

Recommend creating a "brand voice" document and some guidelines so it's more streamlined. Have a content calendar that everyone follows and have some consistency (holidays or company messages). 

Hope that helps!
I would question whether you really need Instagram; rule of marketing is to be where your customers are. What will you get out of investing time and resources on Instagram? 

If you believe Instagram is a good channel, I would recommend to just keep 1 account as a general account if you are planning to have the same content across the different locations anyway. You can dedicate one content pillar to focus around localized content and promotions.

Hope this helps!
Ultimately it depends on what the objectives for each social media you want to achieve. Both strategies make sense but you need to allocate the right amount of resources and to state feasable aims to your social media marketing strategy. Hit me up if you have any questions :)
I think in terms of targeting and ROI, digital marketing is unbeatable. 

But it does depend on what the brands end goal is too.
Print and digital work even better when paired together
You can slay in certain verticals with direct mail (high margin stuff with long turn around)
It can be somewhat difficult (and sometimes impossible) to track an ROI from traditional - which is why a lot of companies have moved away from it. I personally prefer performance marketing. However, I think traditional still does have a place for global brands.
What a vague question. How do you define grow? Paid? Organic? Engagement? Followers? Why a timeline like that?
Okay let me be more specific LOLOL

What are the best ways to grow your followers, engagement ,and retention rate on a Instagram page?What are some other automation softwares that are actually legit that you would recommend? My goal is to be able to bring a thousand followers minimum to an account that deals with photography(nature). Give any targeting and retargeting methods that can help me in any way.Any type of Facebook ad campaign I should be running to get more followers? People say traffic ad campaigns work but I had no luck. I'm trying to grow my skills in Instagram Marketing
1. Relevant #tags - People always tend to search for #tags in Instagram. Check other posts with the same niche and find trending #tags.
2. Run contest while posting, like, 

* “Caption this image”
* “Share a time when…”
* “Tell us how this image makes you feel”

3. Time Matters - Always know when to post , if you are confused, check the insights and find post   
engagement vs Time relation.

4. Work with influences - Find influences in your niche and let them spread your content 

5.  Be active in Instagram stories - Daily!

&#x200B;

Good luck!
consistency is key of digital marketing 

1 consistency

2 follow your related niches

3 relevance hashtags #

4 Instagram stories 

5 your niche related post commenting
You can use tracking numbers for calls. What kind of store is this? What are you counting as “leads”?
You need to do search engine optimization for your website. Sure doing some minor changes like that definitely helps than not doing it, but it is going to take serious effort and time to rank it up there for a valuable keyword.

There are not many adult friendly SEO as well. Most probably will not even touch it.

PM me if you want to discuss
I get the: "How would you improve this or that aspect of our Digital Marketing efforts?" In every interview I have. I recommend you to thoroughly go over every single aspect of their DM and think of at least 1 or 2 things that could make a real difference (in terms of profits but also in terms of ). Hope it helps and good luck!
Due to the fact that the position you're applying " is quite creative," I would recommend preparing something which can show your vision and how you can contribute to the company. As far as I understood your job is more about storytelling and building the campaign for the company which will help them not only to build a bright presence on social media but will make them unique. So don't be afraid to be who you are. 

In my company, we had a similar situation. Despite the fact that we are a digital marketing company, we have applied a person who had nothing to do with marketing and was working in the film industry before. But this fact helped her to develop a really brave campaign for our platforms. Now it works perfectly.  


So, if you want to stand out or to show you're really interested in the position: maybe prepare something to show how it can work if you will do it. It can be one post, or brief structure and prepositions what should be changed or improved. Just show this creative vision that you have. And don't be afraid of it! Good luck! ;)
The whole challenge of Digital Marketing is to make people talk of your brand.  Yeah online presence and reach are technical terms.  But the real goal is to make people talk about your brand in person.  
Also spending budget efficienctly is a good point.  The reason people do DM is to cut down budget.  Remind the company that it's easier to spend money wisely and try out multiple campaigns in the same budget and not reduce it.  
How you integrate traditional marketing with digital marketing really gives you an edge in an interview! 

Worked for me!
AFAIK FB purposely kneecaps organic reach unless you pay to promote your posts
I doubt you're even reaching 20k of 100k

They say it's usually 2-5% depending on engagement so that would be 200-500.

Its very much pay to play nowadays. They want you to run paid ads.
There's no way unless your post goes extremely viral
Facebook Ads Manager. You've gotta pay to play these days!
Apologies if this all sounds obvious, but this is how I would approach it. 1. Step back into what purpose the site *is* supposed to be serving, not everything is transactional. 2. Consider who is likely to benefit and seek to know more about that. 3. What questions will they have that the site can answer or connect to. Then the usual google trends, search console and competitor analysis.

I’ve been working on a campaign for a specialist brand agency, again not expected to convert from search but looking to be part of more potential client considerations. Hope that helps.
Agree with above. You have to figure out what the client goal/expectation is of their site. Then exceed those expectations. 

I did a sure for a large insurance company that doesn't want direct traffic because they seem through local agents, but then I showed them how we can direct traffic to their local agent network and they were floored.
1. Make an online store

2. Make the store look professional, relevant to what you’re selling, and not trash(optimize it the best for organic seo. You can watch YouTube videos about that.)

3. Use Fivver if you need to make a logo or a banner

4. Use your money and put it towards fb/ ig ads. 

5. Write blog articles about your niche

6. Experiment a lot and test on what marketing campaigns are worth it

7. Wait. It takes time to see results

8. Keep learning about strategies
On top of my head, Schedule Webinars. They work like magic in education sector.

Also, get the website optimized. One of the Reasons why it's failing is this. Will you trust an education course of 850£ with shitty website? 

Btw, £100k budget sounds so dope to spend across multiple platforms. I hope i reach that level soon. 

Mind how long have you been in DM?
Create a new landing page and run ads there. 
MailChimp if you don't know development, html/CSS grid if you want to create something that will stand the test of time (backlink).
Also, you need to be aware that Facebook will increase the cost after a period of time whereas Google ads will reduce it. 

Hope it helps
The UI/UX of a website is vital for submitting a lead form. It needs to be as easy as possible, with the least amount of work for the potential new client. I use HotJar to track our visitors behavior on the site, and this helps us with tinkering certain things to make the person's "wants/needs" easily available. If people are having to click 7 times to submit an application or what not, you will 100% turn potential clients away. Little tweaks like this could do wonders for your lead gen.
Looks like a lot of comments here already gave you some great ideas. But let's give you 3 from my point of view.

1. Creating a simple landing page is way more effective than having a shitty one. Especially if customers journey is a mess. 
2. Webinars are not only great for new leads but also for adding a bonus for already existing customers, which can lead to more leads if done with point 3.
3. Email marketing: Create a coupon for referrals - with already existing leads. (example: refer your friend - get $50 Amazon coupon)

Good luck!
7 clicks!?

Sell them some on site-optimization, and explain to them why it's badly needed.
Sounds like a project you shouldn’t have bother taking and possibly didn’t qualify enough for yourself.

I’d walk away tbh. 

Not worth the headaches.

Either that or you need to revisit the discussion based on the scope of the work, what you’ve uncovered, and what needs to be done to make it work for them. 

And this is where you are crystal clear moving forward along with upwelling them on any additional services you’d need to implement.

Bottom line - cut your losses and walk away. 

From the sound of it, they’re in control because you’re allowing the client to communicate anyway they want towards you...

And they clearly don’t understand their own issues or what makes sense in order to achieve results they want.

If they have a crap site and no traffic, you’re spinning wheels.

If they aren’t working on generating organic traffic or just thinking you have some magical solution, you’re spinning wheels.

The money is not worth the headache, your time, your extra effort, your personal name and reputation.

They clearly don’t get you, the communication isn’t on the same page, and they’re pulling you all over the place. 

Just my opinion.

I wouldn’t have even agreed to this job and would’ve qualified further before hand. 

I’d walk away and say thank you for the opportunity, but we are not the right fit. 

—
Mike
How many of those original leads converted? 

For the short term, retarget the ads and copy to start getting leads in again.

You should always A/B test to see which ads run best and which will be the control. 

Maybe targeting is off? Get more specific in the demographic, age range, location etc... 

Could be the copy...

Could be the offer... 

Run it against the current ads and see if traffic increases. 

—
Mike
If you implement Google Tag Manager on your site, you can implement a rule to track the "apply now" button clicks.   You can then implement the conversion pixel of the DSP/Adwords (wherever you are getting the traffic) to fire when that button is clicked as a result of your media.
Often times there are 3rd party tracking pixels that you can work with the companies to access information through. You'd need to do a data sharing agreement with everyone involved, but on certain industries, this is pretty standard. I've done a bunch of these, if you PM me, I can try to help.
Did they sign a marketing release for email/text? If not, that's a huge no-no. If you maintain a marketing list of patients who have opted in and have the proper documentation, then you can request reviews all you want. You just can't enter them for them, obviously. 

Best case is to have something to hand out as they leave. Have instructions on how to post reviews and such.
For HIPAA, you need to ensure reviews are anonymous to protect the patients’ privacy.
You may already be doing this, but you could request a review during the discharge process. Perhaps a flyer, or a line on the discharge paperwork (disclaimer: I don’t know the legality of this but it would avoid the opt-in issue vis a vis texts and email).
Why don’t you get supermetrics?
Yes, you can use Data Studio to generate reports customized to your needs regarding the performance of the paid channels. If you don't want to manually update the DS sources on a daily basis, you can use Supermetrics connectors, I believe that they have it all. But if you don't have or want to invest any additional budget to get Supermetrics, you can manually update a Google Sheets file on a daily basis with the needed data across your paid channels.

&#x200B;

I wouldn't rely on Analytics only especially if your goal is to check the performance in terms of leads & cost per lead - usually there is a pretty huge discrepancy between Analytics data and the paid platforms. Use Analytics to check sessions, new users and bounce rate (you have a direct connector in DS) and aggregate the conversion-oriented results directly form the paid channels (manually in Google Sheets or with Supermetrics).
We had this come up recently. Client runs a local business improvement district. 

Normally, we always say no to this kind of request. 

However, this client has been working with our company for 10+ years and referred many qualified leads over that time, so we said yes. They pay a monthly retainer for ~4 hours of my time. After a basic training session or two, I audit their campaigns before they go live and offer suggestions. 

This client has always been great to work with, and it has been a great arrangement so far. They insist they are a 3/10 on the tech savvy scale but are in fact 7/10. I could see this arrangement being an absolute nightmare in many other situations. 

Hope that helps!
Hmm. If it’s not your core business, don’t do it, refer them a trainer. But if you want to do it... you could check out some other FB courses or Blueprint and put together your own course materials. 

Then you’ll know how long it will take. And you might have another service you can sell afterwards :-)
Ask to be paid by the hour. Why not? If not you then they'll pay someone else to teach them.
I do a variation of this with certain clients. I work with several law firms, and some of the solo or small firms have more time than budget available. I charge for account setup and include a list of weekly and monthly tasks. I also offer 2 hours per month to check on the account and provide suggestions or make changes in the account. This works for the firm, as the save money while generating leads and I gain their trust while displaying my expertise. Then when the client gets too busy and gets solid ROI they have me take over the account. This is good for both pof us. They can dip their toes in, learn and understand the strategy of Google Ads and end up being a more informed and better client to work with. Both sides win. 

But I also filter out clients that I feel I won't get along with, so I don't work with everyone who wants to do this type of arrangement.

Edit: word
A class I took recently covered this. They mentioned video taping some of your lessons or just saving material so you can use it in the suture. They also said that even if it’s less work, you should be charging them significantly more. Because you’re passing on your years of experience. Which probably includes expensive mistakes. Years of stress and trial and error. Jobs that paid little. Classes or other learning materials. Etc. and they are expecting to just get all of that.
It depends on a publisher and type of ads.

&#x200B;

This is what you want:

* CPM - high awereness
* CPC - high traffic
* CPA - conversion

&#x200B;

This is how they scam you:

* CPM - low quality cheap impressions
* CPC - cheap bot traffic
* CPA - retargeting / brand keywords on search

&#x200B;

This is what you should look after:

* CPM - use independent adservering to check viewability rate, placement of your ads and format structure. What you would want is high viewability rates, higher share of premium banner formats (300x600, 970x250) and good websites
* CPC - monitor onsite traffic, use analytics and set events, check time on site and pages per session. Also use hotjar to monitor website and analytics events to monitor website for bot traffic (time on site and pps can be gamed). Also check conversion rates.
* CPA - don't allow retargeting pixels from agencies, or check if traffic sent by agencies are actually returning visitors (this means that they're retargeting your traffic, and it's more common that you might think). Also check if agencies are using "post-view" conversion tracking to charge you and don't do this (it's BS). Due to cookie blocking, using multiple devices and other attribution problems, CPAs are hardest to pull successfully, and if they work surprisingly well, then the odds are you're being gamed...
Depends on the goal of the campaign and how easily you can track the sale or acquistion. If you are advertising laundry detergent - maybe the user clicks the link and buys online or something, but maybe they just happen to try that laundry detergent the next time they are at the store.

Think of he ads for butter and other grocery items you might see during a youtube video. Nobody is clicking that video to go buy butter right then and there.

If simple brand // product awareness is what matters CPM is a good measurement.
It depends on the goal of the campaign. If you just want branding/awareness, CPM is fine. If the goal is lead generation,  CPM makes no sense to focus on.
On the platforms that matter, Display = CPM. That's basically it.
CPM can get you more scale
Generally this is less the agency’s choice than the publishers. For example display/banner platforms are usually built around CPM’s. Search platforms are generally CPC. Social runs the gamut. Affiliate does CPA. Though note most platforms have flexibility in pricing models these days. 

There are certain conventions and best practices. If the goal is reach or branding with engaging visual, video, or audio than CPM is preferred. CPC is ideal for media types that need clicks for validation (like text ads). CPA is generally the realm of affiliate marketing or emerging (not fully trusted) media. 

If you’re working at a large agency or on a large camping it’s common to see all three models on one plan.
CPM is the way the inventory is purchased from the publisher so whether you are being charged a marked up CPM or a CPC it's all the same.

Since clicks are largely irrelevant to a display campaign even for ROAS/Retargeting you'll still want to pay for impressions. Clicks on the ads versus actual traffic registered by analytics is always going to be much lower. 

For programmatic display we charge a Max $6 CPM for example on $3000+ budgets but we often deliver much lower at say $1.5 to 4 CPM combined prospecting and retargeting. 

Low CPM like low CPC means you won't be able to bid on your most valuable users which is less relevant on prospecting (minus garbage inventory) but very important on retargeting.
I wouldn't post offers. Stories could be used to create your own mini stories about best places to go and when, top festivals/events from around the world coming up this spring, that sort of thing. You could try resharing photos from other travelers for content. Be sure to use appropriate hashtags.
Yeah social isn’t about selling immediately, all about nurturing sales and event triggering when the time is right.
Depends on the audience. My CPCs and CPAs are lower on Instagram, and the CPM's are way lower.
Google (free) and Squared Online. Hubspot is also well recognized.
Certification doesn't work in DM. Agencies judge someone of work experience. Hence - quicker and better way for you to learn and grow will be to take a project and let it grow under your tutelage. Contact any small shop owner or business and request them to allow you to do DM for them at small cost or free of cost.

Google your way through. There are many blogs that will help you out. 

Good luck man. Cheers!
Outside of the main Google and HubSpot certs, the only other one I’d recommend is the Bing Ads Accredited Professional and Facebook Blueprint.

If you’re willing to spend a little money, a Microsoft certification in advanced Excel is well worth it.
Hit me up!
Look into:

* EasyWebinar
* EverWebinar
* Stealth Seminar

I'm sure at least one of those has all your requirements.
ON24 does some of these, not sure about your full requirements here, as SMS  live chat box seems a little niche
There is one and only best solution for you. 

I have looked into all webinar solutions and they are all rip offs except Demio
I say stop with the BS webinar 2 hour pitch.
I have a very detailed campaign for targeting home buyers. We aren't in the same market, shoot me a dm and I will send you over what is working for me.
Be careful how you target. I ran marketing for two real estate brokerages. Using zip codes is good but FB would often be pesky about targeting certan areas. 

I'd run ads to establish name recognition in the market. Then others that specifically say something like "we've sold XXX houses in your area. Yours can be next!"

Then do retargeting of people who click the link to sell their house.
Exclude people with the job title "Real estate broker or agent" if you don't want someone else to spam your ads comment section. Many older people tend to give their numbers on the comment itself, so actively monitor it and after noting it down delete it asap.  Not exactly  the tip you were asking for, but it will help you in any real estate related ads.
Try the exclude options of the Facebook ads. It will help you to exclude the people who are the real estate brokers or builders.
Use Postal Code/Zip Code targeting to affluent areas or areas of gentrification. Amend the creative accordingly to be specific to that area: "Do you know houses in your area are being sold for £xxx,xxx on average in 2018? Find out how much yours is worth with a free evaluation. Click here to enquire"
Moz/semrush will give you an idea of as copy and keyword they are bidding on and a few estimates.  Assuming they are big.  Maybe start there if they definitely won't give you viewing access.
I can tell you as someone who hires PPC people that when I ask those sorts of questions, I'm not necessarily looking for an answer to the question. Instead, I'm looking to understand how the person goes about performing the research to answer the question. 

Basically, what  I'm looking for when I ask those questions is 'does this person know enough to figure out how to answer the question correctly'. Obviously bonus points if you can actually answer the question effectively too.
You can be added as a viewer on their account without them giving you the user/password
If they won't give you access to the Google Ads account and all you want to do is review their keyword selection, get the client to export a list of their keywords including match types and any other metrics you need.

They can do this by simply going to Google Ads > Keywords > Download.

If you want to review their adverts, ad extensions or any other assets without Google Ads access, they can do the exact same thing.

Go to Google Ads > Ads & extensions > Remove all columns so there is no data > Download.
The best you can do in that situation is use a tool like SEMrush to see what keywords their ads show for check their ads/landing pages.
They clearly have no idea how google ads works.
I am exactly the same. I hate not being able to see the full picture of the company. Anytime this happens I always have to go back and google to go to the main page. Annoys the living shit out of me.
Just remember, you, a person who knows what he's doing, are just like 5% of the total people who clicks ads.

&#x200B;

I actually believe that less options means less time to think. But there are tons of ways to apply this idea to a website. So boldly suggesting "removing menu buttons" might not work for most of the web sites. 

&#x200B;

I suggest you to track your page views with tools like hot jar, and modify places where they leave.
Sounds like a juvenile objection. Do you have data to show adding main site navigation to the landing page improves campaign ROI? If no, you have no argument. In some cases you could be correct in your assumption, but right now you are just using a personal anecdote and assuming that based on that you know how to properly spend the clients money while people who have more experience than you are telling you to do it the way the data shows.
Yes. You are. If you are looking for pricing, while the consultation is free, it means the landing page is not done well. The visitor is suppose to feel that they have nothing to lose taking up the free consultation while the consultation would be able to solve their problem.
What platform are you advertising on? Can you share the ads/lp?
Also can you share some examples of those bot accounts?
Spotify has 300 million playlist. Your playlist has to be lit to stand out.

That being said, several users are doing it over insta and i have suscribed to them.

Use videos with songs and use stories creatively. Be active and engage. If done right, people will check yorlur playlist out sooner than later.

Good luck
Thanks I’ll try that!
How exactly do you monetize a Spotify playlist?
Step 1 - Your spotify list must be really unique and appeal to a certain demographic (if you don't do this no marketing gimmicks will help you gain traction)

Step 2 - I would approach a designer/illustrator to generate a logo to accompany your playlist and social media content so as to make your brand identifiable and stand out

Step 3 - Generate relevant content if possible. News / opinions and memes will help grow your audience
Perpetual traffic by Digital marketer, particularly episodes with Ezra and Molly. Then just trial and error.
Experiment and learn from experience. That's the only way to learn. 

Good luck!
Word stream.com
In addition to what everyone's mentioned, try not to make your audiences too granular. Lump like audiences together so FB's algorithm has more data to work off of.
You will learn from your own experience. And your question is incomplete no one can tell you about your ads budget. Beacuse you have not provided the enough details of your Facebook ads.
cool
What are you trying to accomplish? Selling multiple physical products? Selling an info product? Software? Maybe you’re want to sell advertising on your site within your content? Maybe you’re an affiliate marketer (like me)...

Strategies vary based on the end result you’re shooting for.

For example, if you’re promoting an affiliate product, you want high-quality content that dives deep about the product that you’re promoting.

However, if you’re trying to sell ad space on your site, you’re probably more likely going to focus on a high-volume of new content.

Content marketing is a fairly broad term and strategies vary based on the end goal.

The one consistent piece of advice that you’ll probably get is “create unique high-quality content.” I’d argue that there are some scenarios where that’s not even necessary but that’s a different topic for a different comment or thread. :)
Agreed you don’t always need to create your own content. 

Content curation is a viable approach.
My advice would be to develop a marketing campaign in a storytelling way. It means not only to make good content or visuals but also to develop the whole content plan as a story which viewers should follow. From our experience it makes subscribers waiting for a new post and gives more engagement on a page. The storytelling approach can vary based on the product or services you are selling.
Thanks for the tip. There are lots of misinformation out there on content curation. I wanted to adopt it as a content marketing strategy since it's difficult to write but read somewhere that it hurts SEO.  Will have to look into what you said.
Thanks.
Good optimized website + google ads and retargetting.

Then instagram + influencers.

Twitter to create a brand

Fb has too much noise to stand out. I would be wary of spending too much on it. Just be active and focus on oragic growth there.

Also, drip marketing for better user experience.
Fb+Ig ads combined with influencers
Considering your budget and bussiness type you should follow product based advertisement policy at the beggining. It is relatively cheap and short-term act. Facebook, Instagram and google ads are the best choice for that. Before publishing ads be sure that your website is mobile optimized since most of potential users of yours will be connected through mobile devices. Afterwards when you have more budget and renown you should develop SEO.
Can I be brutally honest? 

Don't spend your money yet. It's not there. At least online. Your products are the same as everyone else's, from what I could find on your website. But that's totally fine. Looks like you're trying to create a lifestyle brand, not a product line. $800 isn't enough to do that, though. You need some organic work.

Work with people on Instagram, give them product and have them post about it. Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, etc. All the same. Find people who have the audience that you want to target and work with them. 

Your website also needs a lot of work to make this happen. Took some digging to find your purpose. And there's not a ton of text on the homepage. There are some broken links, no blog/community that I could see, and not a ton in the way of people promoting your lifestyle in your brand. This might be another area to spend some coin - get a photographer to do a lifestyle shoot for you. 

Hope this isn't discouraging! I think you have the start to a solid website going. Some fine tuning and you'll be humming along in no time. Feel free to DM if you want!
That’s a great idea thank you. Do you suggest maybe messaging specific people that follow us on social media as well? If so what might be a good type of thing for the message regard?
The two best way is to just keep your money and send your products to instagram influencers for immediate results and work on SEO for your website for long run.

I do these things for startups all the time. Let me know if you need help with anything.
If you promote great content to the right audience, sure.
Yes, it can.

Not only you can earn links by promoting your blog post, but also detect broken links on other relevant websites and offer them a link on your website they can replace it to; offer your expert opinion on a subject matter of someone’s blog posts and they can link back to you, and many other tactics.

The only important thing is that you need to do it the right way, be relevant and don’t spam.
If you have high quality content and you are reaching out to people who have high authority blogs. Then yeah its possible.

Its all about the approach. You need to offer them something that improves the value of their blog post.
they will most likely ask to see examples of content. Make sure the content you show them is 100%, relevant to the publication and not promotional.
What services do you offer?

I’ve seen Instagram working pretty good for this kind of businesses.
Feel free to DM. But you definitely need to become the go-to expert in travel and culture in that area. There are some good models for it. You’ll also need to find a way to be trustworthy to your buyers! Travel isn’t a “thing” that people can just return; it’s experiential and important and life-altering. People are far more leery of small players in this space.
It always comes down to who you're targeting. I'd use FB and Instagram stories build like a tour/road trip. It will come down to the photos and the story they tell. Since you're low on budget link your images to a simple landing page link to either Drip or Mailchimp autoresponder so that you can show investors analytics on the growth rate in interest in your offering. Good luck!
Your return on ad spend should dictate that. If you are profitable and losing impression share to budget, yes increase the budget.
I recommend adding Avg. Search Impression Share column to your table. You can find it under Competitive Metrics when you are customizing columns.

There you can see the percentage of searchs that you show your ad. You can target a bigger percentage and increase your daily budget through time while monitoring avg search imp. share.
Are you trying to hit a specific return on ad spend (ROAS)? Usually, for ecommerce it is best to work to a ROAS target you are happy to achieve. For example, your advert spends £10 but lands a sale worth £100 - this would be a ROAS of 1,000% or 10:1. The figure you are trying to hit will depend on internal profit margins and other costs.

Assuming you are importing the revenue data into Google Ads, you can see the ROAS of your campaigns/ad groups by adding in the 'conv. value / cost' column under Performance. This column will show you your ROAS.

If you are happy with the ROAS of your campaigns, I would recommend opening up your budgets accordingly. As other users have stated, I would also check out your impression share, specifically, the 'Lost IS (Budget)' column. This column will show you the percentage of impressions you have missed due to budget restraints.
Just adding here that you should do TONS of research on the company before preparing your pitch deck. Even though it’s just an internship, companies consistently undervalue digital marketing and expect the world for pennies.

If you have experience/samples from previous work that would apply to this company, reference that and try to steer clear of laying out all your great ideas before they make a hiring decision.

Show them what having YOU on the team could mean for their overall growth strategy, not just your ideas.

Unfortunately, I’ve seen dozens of people put together incredible pitch decks, provide amazing solutions, only to be turned down for the job. Surprise, surprise, a month later they launch a campaign veeeerry similar to the ones they proposed during the interview.

Your time, energy and education are valuable. I hope this isn’t the case, but I just had to say something! Wish you the best of luck!
I'd be happy to help. I have worked in digital marketing for almost 8 years and can try to point you in the right direction.
By X amount of prospects, do you mean leads? It really depends what area of digital marketing you're focusing on.

If it's on the ppc side, I would focus on the structure of the site and build keywords from there in broad match modified based on the services/products they provide. You really need to research the company and their products / services before doing anything else. For example, What kind of business is the company? Where is the company located? What times do we open and close? What areas are we targeting? What is the unique selling proposition of our products/services? What are things we have done that make us stand out from our competition (Awards/Reviews/Performance)? 

 What I would also make sure is that everything is tight knit and ignore volume. Reason I say this is because 1. Google keyword planner is not 100% accurate when it comes to volume statistics and 2. Because it's better to have low volume and a high amount of conversions than high volume and a low amount of conversions. Why? Because having lots of volume but low conversions is literally flushing money down the drain. And conversions = money... And that's the end goal here. I would build up my ad groups, keywords and negative keyword list. Then I would create three ads per ad group for a/b split testing. I would also tack on two ad extensions for all ads, which the most common ones are call extensions and locations extensions. Those two get the most clicks. Then I would check the site to see if it's optimized for mobile as well as the sites loading times. Mobile is especially important because 60% of people today now surf the web with their smartphones according to mozcon. Then I would finally create a retargeting campaign because 95% of people who go onto your page leave within the next 5 seconds, but when your ad tracks then, your conversions rise.

Phew.... That was a lot. I can talk about seo too but it would be just about as long lol.
You may be able to impress with some very simple and free things, for example get a free trial on SEM Rush - show him some reports on relevant keywords and traffic, links etc.

Depending how how advanced they are even simple things like that could blow their mind.

Competitor analysis would be another interesting thing to show them.
ex-journalist here:

Only thing you need is curiosity.  

Printed media 

1. be fascinated not only for words but also for design: take some Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign courses, read some graphic design books to get better eye for beautiful things. 
2. be curious why printed newspapers and magazines live, thrive and get above the water (so advertising, look at it, look at copy and look at design)
3. be interested how printed magazines sold themselves on social media -(so social media, design, mass mailing because you get a lot of mailing campaign mails), through online campaigns, through mail campaigns... And what if I tell you, you can automate that mailing campain - if I register and visit few times, I may get mail to complete offer for subscription... And here we go to the world of online.

Online media

1. be curious for design - look at some blogs (google it) how good web design looks like. 
2. look for interesting media, look for successful newspapers, look for awful bad conspiracy shit (you need to know how bad job looks like)
3. be curious how they work - make your own blog (or work in some media), just start some quick easy wordpress blog, how to publish something, how to promote it on social media, how to make mass mailing for subscribers, how to use services to do that... then you definitely get interested in web development. 
4. be interested in web dev - you neeed to know what is HTML, CSS, JS and some content management system (for example wordpress). So do some cheap good rated courses on Udemy. Some of the Web Development... It is about 12 dollars on Udemy or Free on YouTube with some time spent on searching. You need learn how to code web because you want to have nice mass mails. After that maybe some PHP and databases because you have your own blog, yeah? You dont need to be mega coder but imagine you work for e-shop (or you have one).
5. after that - you need to know if it is worth it, yeah? So analyze it, yeah? How much visitor you have on your blog - so google academy, google analytics... SEO basics.
6. You have some own website... that is good for presenting yourself. Now start to learn thinking. Problem solving is necessary technique to master. Javascript could help. You will also encounter in your digital marketing world... Impression pixels (often gave by advertising agency along with banner to websites) are javascript codes. 

&#x200B;

Dont do broad tutorials like: "Digital Marketing, master everything and be mega hero". No good. It is all about curiosity. 

You need tools to create, to measure and to solve problems (this should be your brain). Learn them. 

Curiosity produce thinking and critical thinking.

&#x200B;

Maybe, you as psychology degree, can start a blog about mental well-being and mental health and burnout and all that shit and apply all above to that. Make it your project. And after that, present it to your future employer - here, I did it all by myself, lots of digital marketing had to be done.
Digital marketing is like an ocean. You need to chose what niche you will be picking up.

Since you like writing, I would suggest content writing as this will come naturally to you. 

Also, blog post, product description, email marketing, headlines for adwords etc. These all stem our from having a good command over how to play the game with user's mind. 

Good luck! 

Ps- It takes a while to develop a niche. It took me 3 years. So, don't be faZed. To earn by the time you become world class in a particular niche, you might be needing to learn basics of other form of digital marketing.
Hi!

A translator here. Digital Marketing really has A TON of paths: data analysis, content marketing, SEO, SEM, E-mail marketing, Automation, Social Media... The good thing about that is that it's really easy to jump between career paths (even if you studied journalism and want to specialize in data), so you should get the basics on everything, know which path do you like the most and then apply for an internship or start working towards that goal.

I started with Google's Digital Marketing Course, then jumped straight to Ads and Analytics (these two are CRUCIAL). Then I created a wordpress webpage just to mess around and experiment with stuff. Read blogs, study some articles, watch videos and learn, learn, learn. When you feel you are ready, try to jump straight into an internship, and you will be on your path to really become a digital marketer.

Reddit has helped me a lot and has a ton of info about career paths, but if you need some resources, PM me and I will link you some :p
Content Marketing is something that you might like doing, you can even look into social media management as well. To take it further, you can learn website management and be in charge of a website. I think the creative part of social digital marketing is saturated and very competitive. The money is in tech, analytics, and product marketing. Location also plays a factor.
Hello,

Digital marketing is a small term with deep sense. It is a bunch of activities where you need to choose either one or many of them according to your skills and interest. There is a lot of work likes blogging,  SEO activities, Affiliate marketing, Email marketing, website designing using wordpress like applications, and so on. But I personally suggest you to choose either **Blogging** or Affiliate marketing. Blogging is the term we all are familiar with but I put some light on **Affiliate marketing** \- a process of earning commission by promoting other people's product on your own blog or website.  It all depends on your own interest of work, so choose any one of them and start your new destiny.
Have you tried digital audio channels? I know from experience that promoters like Live Nation are heavy users of digital audio advertising on streaming apps to sell tickets. I work in the digital audio space, so feel free to DM if you want more info. Thanks!
Hi there,

What kind of help you want?

Do you want to hire a freelancer or you are just looking for idea how to scale you business?
LinkedIn Ads for B2B.

Also Google Ads targeting is improving and their Display ads are even better targeted than their search ads.

Also can you be an Alibaba merchant?
Hi Rocka,

Cold emailing is actually the best way for you to find potential clients. Website and funnels are great and all, but if nobody knows who you are and nobody visits you, you have to let them know that you are there.

Emailing has not worked for you yet possibly because it was not enticing to them.

Please remember cold emails are only a way to get yourself noticed, sales and closing are done through subsequent contacts and emails. But in the end, no matter how personalized your emails are, it is all about the numbers.

We send 500-1000 personalized cold emails per day and close clients every other day through phone calls.

I can help you with this if you wish. Just let me know.
I’ve been doing it for 10 years without any certifications. I think proven results are what counts. I don’t think it’s affected my career. 

With or without certificates, your way into the field is to take a shitty entry level gig to get experience and get out ASAP.

While you’re job hunting, build your own website so you can have something to show. I’d never take a candidate seriously who didn’t have at least a one page site.
I’ve worked in Digital Marketing for 3 years . Just got promoted to Marketing Communications Manager.. 

I primarily do the following: 

- Maintain website content (CMS) 
- maintain social media channels / build social strategy
- Build and maintain email marketing campaigns 
- Coordinate marketing collateral materials for conferences with cross functional departments
- create marketing plans and timelines 
-oversee and manage brochure and print materials
- develop our marketing strategy along the different channels we utilize to reach our audience 

I would try to get in doing email marketing (that’s what I did) or as a Marketing Coordinator ... once you get the foot back in the door you’ll get all the exposure .. I started as a specialist and moved up. ..
 
I do track my data and I am implementing automation to ... all things you can learn on the job...
Definitely look at the Facebook blueprint courses. While you don’t need to take the exams (as each cost $150 and you need to take the core + either planning or buying exam), the online, free courses are helpful to understand strategies and basic terms for Facebook as quite a bit could have changed in two years.
I'm always so cautious of spending all this money on classes you think you need to be successful in digital marketing. It just isn't the case.. The internet is such an amazing source for anything, ESPECIALLY learning. And honestly, the BEST knowledge you can get, is just by doing it yourself. There is a difference in being taught what you THINK you need to know, and what you *actually* need to know.

&#x200B;

Learn the platforms. Don't rely on getting the "good stuff" from any of these online course. Do the research. Watch the trends. FREELANCE. Take internships. Create some free campaigns for family, friends, family friends, whomever, to learn what areas or industries you enjoy the most. The best thing you can learn from is failure in digital marketing. It is not easy in the field, and this is not to deter you. It's the honest (and sometimes crushing) truth. So when you get shut down over and over, or have unhappy clients, just remember, this is apart of the process and don't give up.

&#x200B;

**Valuable Assets to have in D.M.:**

1. VERY familiar with FB Ads Manager.
2. Being able to read the data and make data driven decisions using Google Analytics 
3. Google AdWords for your PPC. 
4. Photoshop for making your own ad creatives and graphics for whatever.
5. Premiere editing skills. Even if they are mid-tier. Being able to film and/or take prerecorded video, and make a little 30-45 second video clips for your campaigns is so valuable. Video ads are really starting to gain traction, so it's nice to be able to *spice* things up when refreshing your ads.
6. SEO, I guess. But that's gonna be a no from me, fam. Just not my thing. 

People want a "jack of all trades" these days in D.M.. Because if not, you have literally hire 6 vendors, and NO ONE likes having that many (overpriced) vendors. Good luck, bud. We'll see you out there. **And stop spending all that money on shitty online courses.**
Don't go for certifications. Best way to learn is just to do it & deploy campaigns. Employers want folks who could deliver value. Try volunteering at a non-profit in your spare time if you need experience.
I've been doing digital marketing for some time now. Only once I've been asked about a certificate (i think it was that Facebook blueprint someone was mentioning). And this one time I was applying for the career in one big agency. Clients care only about the experience and how can you make them some moneeeyyy! :D
I think with already skills you can become a designer.
You can start your own agency without college experience. So just proof of knowledge.
Certificates can help you land a job in the industry. Results will make you grow and stay in the industry
Honestly, none
Learn to sell. Cars, real estate, vacuum cleaners, digital ad campaigns... doesn’t matter. Actual practical experience getting verbally abused by customers who either don’t want it, or only want it if they can have it yesterday for half the price and in a different color will teach you more about how to advertise than 1000 hours watching udemy videos.
Dont do it. They are phishing for free advice. Give them enough information to prove you know what to do but dont tell them specifically. They likely are doing this to dozens of "prospects" with no intention to hire them. I have been through this before, essentially providing thousands of dollars worth of information for nothing. Offer to do an evaluation and create a marketing plan as a consultant but dont do it for free.
Compare Facebook best practices with what they are doing on a campaign and creative level.
Google digital garage then just learn by doing!
Start your own website. It's really inexpensive to make a simple blog-style site. You can set up and add Google Analytics and search console for free. Social media accounts are all free, so you can create those to drive traffic to your site. Basically, you create a digital publication and learn about driving traffic and analyzing traffic in a way that is 100% hands-on and not expensive. If you want to put small investments into Google Ads, then that's another way to drive traffic and learn about ad creation.
Google Ad Words certificate is free and a good introduction to concepts
Udemy has some great classes! Lots of free guides/Youtube tutorials out there.
There are a bunch of classes for paid advertising. Maybe you can score some discount codes or free trials?
You can take free or paid course from udemy. Or you can create simple blog site and can promote it through SEO and PPC. There are lot of PPC tutorial available on YouTube. You can find lot of information about PPC through Google search. There are lot of site that provide information about SEO and PPC like searchengineland.
1. You need to run client ads through their own business FB page with their attached payment method. Then they'll make you an Admin so that you can create and run campaigns.
2. Why would you run ads for a company, that is attached to your personal or business account? Each company HAS to have its own business page so that you can run ads through these pages. Ads are shown with the business attached. It would make no sense to promote a product, with the ad being shown through your facebook page.
3. I would do A LOT more testing and research before you sign any clients that you are going to be running ads for. If you are not an expert, or very informed, you will have unhappy clients. Unhappy clients lead to bad reviews. Bad reviews lead to no business. No business leads to you working a shitty job that you hate.
1. Get yourself signed up for a free Facebook Business Manager Account using the name of your business (business.facebook.com)
2. Add your employee who will be managing the ads to this account, and give them an appropriate level of access for their role.
3. Add all the pages you will be managing/running ads for to business manager and give said employee access. If you're not already an admin on these pages, you can request access through business manager. It's very professional since the access request will show up as being from your business.
4. Add the client Ad Accounts for the aforementioned pages to business manager. This is the same as above. If you already have access to it, you can just add it right in. If not, you can request access to the ad account using the ad account ID. Client will need to approve these kinds of requests.
5. If the client doesn't have an ad account yet, walk them through setting one up, then request access to it. You will only have a certain number of ad accounts you can create from within business manager on behalf of clients, so its good to have them do this themselves so you don't max out.
6. Always run ads on a client ad account, never on your business account. Allowing your clients to understand how much of their money is going to ad spend and how much of it is going to management fees is a positive sign of accountability and transparency for your business. Scammy businesses who try to skim money off the top of client ad spend do it the other way.
7. IMPORTANT: Set up auto-delivered reports of campaign stats to be delivered to you at regular intervals. If a client pulls the plug (only real downside of organizing everything this way is that the client usually still has full control and authority over everything) you will lose access to historical data - no good if you're trying to prove the value of the service you're providing and need to reference stats.

With business manager you can work in one single user interface, and manage all of your various assets - Facebook pages, ad accounts, audience insights, audience builders, payment methods, etc. That's what it was built for. You can also grant access to employees (and revoke it if need be) and provided different levels of access for different people. There's no reason not to use it. Like I said, it was built for that.

Good luck!

&#x200B;

Edited because typos.
When you set up a campaign the first few times you are going to have a make a bunch of decisions you really didn’t think about before and might not understand. 

Write all of those down. Write out your rationale for your choices the first couple of times. Look at reporting that addresses those choices. Write down what you learned and what you should do next time. 

Truth is you’re going to have a lot of trial and error—try to maximize what you learn from each trial.
Not to hijack this thread but any advice on how to run A/B tests on FB?

Before I created my A/B tests on Facebook, I used Optimizely's sample size calculator and found I needed a sample size of 70,000 per variation to reach 95% statistical significance. While I was setting up my campaigns, Facebook said the potential reach will be 430,000 so I thought I was safe.

However, my campaign is about to end and I only reached <20,000 per variation (which is well below the sample size needed to reach stat sig).

What am I doing wrong & how could I avoid this next time? Thanks in advance for your help.
If it’s anything political and the company is not registered as a political organization, you’re going to have a tough time getting an ad approved as Facebook has understandably cracked down on political themed ads. 

If you HAVE registered as a political organization or you are not petitioning for anything political, then in my opinion I’d run a lead form as where it’s very, very easy to collect information. Depending on demo you might want to check out Facebook, Instagram, and Snapchat. 

Snapchat is way less stringent on political ads so if your demo is younger maybe start there?
On the upside you get to call in and interact with Google customer service, truly the shining star among those who know their product well and go the extra mile to solve your problem /s
If they’re four different variations, you probably would not want to carry over the engagement as that would skew the results and make it challenging to identify which variation works best.
Well, for starters, why was the app deleted? They wouldn’t have done it by accident. 

If you resubmit it without understanding why it was deleted, it will just get suspended again. And after 3 suspensions, you’re banned for life.
Check your emails. This happened to us recently and it was because of a Google policy change that we needed to comply with in our app. We got sent an email about it prior to the app being pulled, but it was in an inbox that nobody checks.
Yes, but mainly because you are a small fish in a very competitive pond.  Trying to compete in Google Adwords for an SEO/Link Building business seems like it would be damn near impossible to compete with some of the bigger boys in that space.

From a more broad perspective, I see SEM becoming more of a commodity.  It seems it is more of a defensive play to avoid being conquested, as opposed to 10 year ago it was offensive.  

When I got into the business 10+ years ago I saw vendors charging ridiculous fee structures for Google Ad campaigns...  In some instances upwards of 40% of media.  Now it seems like a price war to the bottom, with 10-15% fees.  SEM is becoming a commodity.
Find long tail keywords in your niche that you can create content around. Drive search ad traffic to content. Sell within your content and then retarget viewers of that content to your actual offer page.

Think of the intent of the searcher. What OTHER things do people search for that could lead them to wanting a link building service?

Think long tail keywords to content and make the sale on the retargeting.

We get sub $1 clicks in almost any niche from Google search doing this. Then we pay maybe another $1 per click through retargeting but have a super high conversion rate because they’re a bit warmer by the time they see the ad.
I don’t think it’s google ads itself that is competitive. Rather, it’s your niche. Unfortunately, some services’ keywords are vastly more expensive to bid on than others. I’ve found that most digital services are pretty expensive. I’m still new to the game, but I’d recommend trying to find keyword phrases that are less common and bid on those to gain some traction. I’m sure you know this, but it’s important to make sure that you’re optimizing your landing page as well as you can so that those costly clicks don’t go to waste. Good luck!!
Yes, it is because there are millions of online marketing services provider who are using Google ads. That's why there is a high competition to compete with the other service providers. The competition is higher than ever before because of some of the industry leaders, not just competitive with the massive amount of money but they also get the high adscore every time they put their ad on Google ads.
> Google ads are indeed very competitive - But that's because it's the most used SE across the globe. I'd recommend taking a fair amount of time doing keyword research, target those that don't have much competition recorded, as well as long tail keywords as mentioned already.   
>  
>CPC isn't cheap, but the ROI can be worth it. For example, over the past week for my account we have spent over 30k but with a ROI of 692%...  It's not easy, but it can be done.   
>  
>Also- Have you considered audience targeting?
I think you should try to use youtube ads
I'd be interested in replies to this also. 

One question for you though, have you gone through the demo process with a Sharp Spring rep? I did that earlier this year and it answered a lot of my questions.

At this point, it's just a little more than I need for my small business clients.
We use AC. It's been around for a while and easy to implement. Also great for sharing our success automation between clients with little rework. We have not used SS. Good luck.
Moz has updated its database.. don't worry to much
There is the only reason that MOZ has updated their algorithm to calculate the domain authority.
Change in MOZ algorithms. Shouldn't be much of a worry though. Keep doing what you're doing best. You can read more about it here: [https://moz.com/blog/new-domain-authority](https://moz.com/blog/new-domain-authority)
Is it a new domain you want to analyze or the existing one? If it's a domain that has been around for a little while, try using MOZ Link Explorer:  [https://moz.com/link-explorer](https://moz.com/link-explorer) \- free tool that gives you all sorts of info about inbound links, domain authority, etc.
Targeted content for lead gen and SEO with email capture, then email nurturing. Plenty of people still on Facebook/Instagram, with retargeting and prospecting based on custom and lookalike audiences being major for B2B. B2B Google Ads get crazy competitive, but if you have the budget it can convert well. Could you target accelerators or SaaS holding companies? Those decision makers influence lots of other decision makers
No. And dead links hurt SEO, so always add redirects for 404s.
**Error 404** is a client-side **error**, implying that the **error** is your mistake, either because you typed the URL incorrectly or the page has been moved or removed from the website and you should have known.
Yes, it is because redirection is an additional request to the server from the client side. You may know that whenever a page gets to load into the client's browser. It sends some request to the website server for some resources. The less the request send by the page the more it loads quicker. Now you may get an idea that an additional request can increase the load time of the page.
I am not sure why digital marketers need to know html and css since there is WordPress and/or other alternatives.

That said, i wouldn't bother with web development since 35% of the internet \[websites\] runs on WordPress.

&#x200B;

Now if there is something that would separate some digital marketers from the rest of the pack, then, design and behavioral economics would do the trick.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Its like Centres in the NBA... typically you dont need to and are not expected to shoot 3 pointers....but what if you can?

&#x200B;

For sure it will be an advantage.
This question is too vague to really answer. OP define what you mean by “digital marketing”

I’ve been doing digital marketing strategy for the last 12 years. I define that as everything from website strat (Info architecture, requirements gathering, to content strategy), social strategy (community engagement, channel management and content strat), email marketing strat. And digital media strat (display, paid search, paid social) and  None of those need you to touch code. 

If digital marketing to you means strategy (planning) and the “doing” of things (seo strat and execution, building emails, building sites, building display ad units) then yes - you’ll need various levels of coding. 

That said, having an understanding of coding won’t hurt you as it gives you additional insight into the technical aspect of the projects. 

That’s why you’re seeing conflicting answers to your question.

Edit: cleaned up my formatting a bit.
Pretty much anyone in Digital Marketing needs to know basic HTML/CSS, no way around that. Javascript is a nice to have but you can copy+paste most stuff once you know a bit about it.

I think you're at an absolute insane disadvantage without this knowledge if you want to go into digital marketing.
You do not need to know ANY coding. 

It might be beneficial at times, but it’s not a barrier anymore. 

With software like Wordpress anyone can launch a website in minutes without touching a line of code. 

And for actual marketing funnels, you still don’t need to do anything technical thanks to plugins and SaaS. 

If you can use a mouse then you already have all the technical skills you need.
If you know how to modify/edit/create landing pages or modify landing pages from scratch, (Using CSS/HTML/JS/etc) you can work within any CMS that your client is already running. That makes it a lot easier to get results for your client if you can get them a better landing page than everyone else that reports better, more nuanced data.

Is it mandatory? No--but put yourself in the client's shoes. Who are you more likely to sign a large contract with? The digital agency that also understands the foundation of the web, how websites are coded, and how to extract actionable metrics from how people interact with your website for your digital ad campaigns? 

Or would you rather hire the company that sends PPC traffic to the homepage or just hacks together awful WP plugins and themes that give them the same generic metrics everyone else gets? 

I see a lot of people saying you don't need any coding, or that you can launch a website in minutes in WordPress...

These are the people that I constantly win business from because their sites fall apart, look like shit, are too slow, get broken, are poorly designed, not responsive, not customer-focused and ultimately cost them more in the long run.

Knowing how to setup GTM, and to get proper nuanced data from campaigns from a fast landing page is paramount in digital marketing. Knowing the underlying code for these things will make you a better digital marketer. Period.
There is no need to learn too deep coding for the digital marketers. But they should have the basic knowledge of CSS and HTML.  On the other hand, if they have the JS knowledge then it will also be a plus point for them.
If there is a bot running the accounts, it might store usernames it is following in a database, and then draw on that database of usernames for other accounts. So, bot account A discovers you because of some hashtag or some follower of yours, stores you in a database. When bot account B, C, and D run but don't find anyone to follow, they fall back on the data stashed by account A and follow you that way.
A lot of those rats(spam bots) work on the same principle - they "attack" famous or popular accounts. If you follow the same accounts with all of your accounts - there is a good reason they will reach you. Also, there is a possibility of making the connection via friends, family accounts that you follow or if they follow you back on your accounts.

Since it is a bot - it's not that it's targeting especially you - it just follows his algorithm of targeting accounts, and you maybe pop up because of one of the reasons mentioned above.
Spam like how? Like fake comments and likes? Only way to avoid that is set your account to private but you limit your growth that way.
Spam bots tend to target the followers of popular accounts. Example if both your account follow <insert popular instagram account here> it goes through the followers of that account and spams them.
Have you ever run any ads from your personal ad account outside of business manager? If you created an ad account for your business then you still have a separate personal ad account that came with your personal Facebook account that might have a small balance riding on it that you forgot, or that you just unintentionally billed to that ad account when setting up a campaign at some point.

Also, rather than trying to boost posts from inside the Instagram app, you could just create a new ad campaign with the Engagement goal, then when you’re creating your new ads for the campaign, choose the option to use an existing post. You’ll get a pop-up with all of the posts that you can promote. 

Look for the Instagram tab in that pop-up. If you can’t select it, then make sure the Instagram account you connected to your FB Business Manager is selected. The option is very close to the button you click to use an existing post as an ad.

Once you’re in the Instagram tab, choose a post to use in your ad, then repeat.

This way you can create one shared budget that all of your promoted Instagram posts, and the posts that perform best will get the majority of your budget. 

If you want to spread budget out evenly then just create separate ad groups or campaigns for each post you want to promote.
PR is a great way to get good back links and quality traffic to your website. You can plan one PR quarterly. You can submit PR to paid websites and free websites.
PR is not a blog or an article. It is a press document that is based on your products and services. Generally, companies do the press release when they are going to launch a product and services or they are going to make a big announcement. You can do press release if you are going to do any time among these tasks.
A client did that and it did generate traffic but conversions were abysmal due to a non functioning website accompanied by limited content.

That said, if your conversion points are solid, give it a go.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps.
Basically every platform has a different way of attributing clicks and conversions. It's a rabbit hole. 

If all those twitter clicks bounced/had very short time on page they may not have been counted by GA.
Are you using UTM parameters on the link from Twitter? That could help you diagnose.
Honestly if you can't make remarketing profitable with it don't waste your time.
 GA:  
Site visits: 115  
Of which social is: 13   


Are these unique views? If yes, Perhaps those link clicks on twitter aren't unique, some users might've clicked several times.  


Also, some clicks sourced from social media platforms like TW and FB get counted under Referrals and Direct in GA.  


I believe the best thing to do to track the real number of clicks coming from TW is to use their a unique tracking link on whose clicks will then reflect on the Campaign section of GA.
And not just men - it's one of the least publicly discussed issues for women, especially post child birth. I'd also look at new mums of any ages as a potential segment. Assuming it's a unisex not male product.
Ask in r/jobs and explain where you live and what are your experience.Also i would recommend you to keep doing freelancing with the job just make some limits as it will boost your earnings.
The role you should go for is Content writer or SEO executive but if you learn PPC & FB campaigns  you can go for Digital marketing executive (best paid).

Also make a customised C.V in which mention your previous work and clients you can add some reference of a big or good project you did in past and brother happy married life in future i would be needing marriage related tips.
Do you want to work agency side, or in house? Agency would be an obvious choice given you have direct client experience, but in house pays more and be less hectic in terms of work hours.

You have good overall digital marketing skills, so you should have no problem applying for Digital Marketing Specialist / Manager roles which usually cover a range of DM skills from planning / strategy, execution (paid ad setup) etc. If you are you more interested in one area (eg SEO) then you can focus on a single stream and apply for SEO Specialist roles, for example.

I don't think you should aim for entry or "executive"  roles - if you've run full digital marketing campaigns from start to finish and you have 5+ years experience, you should be aiming higher. Take a look at some jobs on Linkedin and see where you stand.
In-house agency corporate marketer here. I moved into this role after freelancing for a few months and am really glad I did. I still am able to flex my schedule as needed but also have a ton of stability (plus great benefits). One thing I was really focused on was a 401k plan, so I'm sticking corporate for now.
It's definitely possible. I went from freelance to in-house to agency and now back to freelance. There are pros and cons to all of them but I'm glad to be back freelance as I don't like to have too much income coming from one source. There is strength in numbers! :)

&#x200B;

I don't have any specific advice really, good luck!
I’m about a month into my digital marketing and web design agency. What is the best way to to get clients. What methods have worked for you guys in the past and what is the best way to approach it?
Event tracking with google tag manager, create event with any click with sign up button, then you will see result in google analytic in events section
Google Tag Manger is the "easiest" solution but you need to be mindful that you might get false positives if you don't get the trigger right. 

&#x200B;

Ps on some WordPress themes, this can be a PITA 

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
GTM as people say - or in Google Analytics you can create a 'sign up' event that is triggered whenever your thank you for signing up page loads.
I was told by one of my professors at uni that you don't want to buy a book on social media marketing because it changes so fast. There are plenty of resources on YouTube and academies that can teach you the basics then you just run with it and see what works for you and what doesn't.

I recommend searching display ads for the particular social media site that you want to learn. Or even just "basic social media marketing help" into YouTube. 

Good luck!
Go to udemy search you will see a course that suit your desire
I would definitely say start connecting (or following) the CMOs / digital marketing directors / social media marketing managers at some companies resonate with you and how they approach that topic. I think you would be surprised by how many, share amazing insight into the way they do things.

&#x200B;

and it doesnt get more real life than hearing it from the mouths of the folks who do it every day, rather than a book or professor.
Quicksprout has lots of great stuff
You'll get the most understanding from the training platforms give to advertisers. They'll literally tell you how to use the platform better than the average user and in many cases give case studies for campaign starting points.
Find a mentor..i.e. someone making a good living doimg what you want to do.
Hello, online courses and by doing practice will make you expert in social media marketing go to Lynda or Udemy
Love this idea!
How are you planning to run this? I am curious
I like this idea.
I have only 39 karma here so not to strong account I have yet. Give me advise about how we do this.
I am happy to help.
Sure!
Sounds good. But how?
Hey! Guess what! I have made a subreddit moviemarketing. We choose a movie and watch its marketing stuffs. The channels how they communicate and everything we want.  There we can talk about everything without disturbing the others.

What do u think?
This concept is new and quite interesting
How long have you been doing traditional marketing? Personally I would take a role in a smallish company where they needed someone to do everything, i.e. the real world activity as well as building online presence. Ideally in a company where they were not good online so you could quickly be the expert and make a measurable impact. Do lots of reading/learning, spend their budget trying things out and in a year or two look for a dedicated DM role
Learn google ad words and SEO
Learn content marketing 
Learn Facebook ads

Your base knowledge of tips and tricks (urgency, scarcity, away pain, towards pleasure) still very much apply! 

What industry have you marketed in the past?
Qlutch seems useful for non-marketing professionals or for people without much marketing experience to build plans, but paying for things you can easily google and find advice on for free probably isn't a great investment. That said, I don't have direct experience with it, so others may have found success with it.
I'm putting one together on Piktochart right now. Free online software and pretty malleable for a free service. Strongly recommend. Really good if you want to use info-graphics heavily in your plan and have it be visually interesting.
Don't post about your products. Post about your audience.
Can't really tell you much as I'm not sure what sort of products you are selling but I guess at this stage where there is so much noise and unfavorable algorithm change for brands....you should just focus on content quality. Could be as few as once a month or once a quarter..but everytime you post, it is something ppl will look forward to!
Customer pictures are always great - If not try creating blogs that are relevant to the products you sell. Blogs are handy for SEO as well as giving you content to promote on social media.
Google Analytics gives courses on how to use it for casual/advanced use
I am a Google Certified Partner. If you have any questions about google ads just send a message. I can send you google online courses I think these are free of charge.
The google Certs are good to get for your resume but in terms of learning they’re not the best imo. There’s a channel I found the other day on YouTube that was really good called Surfside PPC I think? And there’s a bunch of other good channels as well!
On Facebook, you can look at a competitor's page and click the "Ads info" section to show all of the sponsored posts they've run. For Google, you just gotta keep doing searches, but it's not a 100% guarantee you'll see everything.
For Google you can use SEMRush.com
Google ad preview tool can be used for this.
If you follow any sort of blueprint for a marketing strategy you’re likely doing it wrong, all businesses are unique and so should be the marketing strategy. 

My advice would be to totally forget the notion of “I need to do a marketing plan” and think about the problem you want to solve. What it is you want to achieve before you even consider how you’re going to achieve it.

It should end up like a tree. At the trunk is the core aim. As you go up the tree it branches out with goals to meet the aim each having their own leaves that are smaller projects that lead into the goal. Only then can you start making a plan of what to do and when. When you get to this stage look up SMART goals and make sure your goals cover each of the categories.

Good luck 👍
That's a very broad question with not too much context. Marketing Strategy has multiple layers, look up the "P's of marketing" for one. You should find some entry level marketing strategy concepts from there.

 If this isn't your area of expertise I suggest you communicate with your employer that you are a specialist for one particular job. Tell them that they should consider bringing more people on, or an overseer to work with you for the most beneficial relationship.

Most of my business revenue comes from my specialty SEO, and web design because that is my specialty. I only do strategy consulting if I know it's within my expertise.
Google. And hit and trial.

Experience is the only real teacher. Jump into it. 

Also, take up a project and give your best.
I’m all about podcasts. People teach stuff on podcasts that you’d typically have to buy their courses to learn. Some of the best educational resources available.
Hello! I teach social media if you'd like to email me - laura@thatbritishchick.com
Buffer has a great list on what you should be learning. They even link to some classes.  I'm on mobile so I dont have to link. But if you search their site it should be on there.
If you want to spend a bit of money, I think about 2-3k Oxford Uni Business School (SAID) has a on line disruptive digital marketing course which is meant to be good.

Else Udemy!
I'd reccomend you to start with google certificate exams. There is great content for you to study and the exams are free to do! Not only you get certified officially by Google, but you can learn all you need to know at a decent level in Google Analytics and Google Ads. Facebook has a similar program/exam for advertising in the platform (Facebook & Instagram)
I've built a group of around 500, pretty quickly, on Facebook... what are you trying to do/gain
I think the facbook groups is the only organic way. If u think in business page it will cost a lot for you.

Set UP a professional group for your focus group.
Switch the first two paragraphs , you have like half a second to pique interest and the who and whst should be center stage (even though you're offering them work)
I don’t have construction background but from what I see is that you may want to consider better highlighting the benefits the receiver can get from engaging with you (perhaps in clear bulletpoints). Another thing that would be interesting to revisit is your subject line. I am also wondering whether LinkedIn Inmail would not be more effective (not familiar with your industry so not sure!)? Hope this helps!
The construction industry is currently extremely busy, so most good contractors aren’t going to have the time for a call that might help them. From the start show them how you will help them get work and save them time in the process. The main thing I would focus on is how you will save them time with your services. I work as a construction manager and I can tell you these contractors are not bidding projects simply because they don’t have the time to with how much work there is.

Edit: feel free to DM me, I’d be happy to help you out with this a bit more.
This is just something that I always say at the beginning ... “hope all is well”. Shows your friendly and the first thing they read isn’t marketing bullshit. It’s sincere.. unless you just hate life lol good luck  

Oh, and I also always end my first touch with “talk soon.” Kinda assuming  that there will be a meeting between the two because you’ve done your research and know you’re a good fit for them.
I like to have my first paragraph as my UVP.  Helps tremendously with cold email response. 


Would you respond to:

1 Dear Jon Snow of Winterfell

Hi, are you looking to defeat the white walkers?

Or

 2 Dear Jon Snow of Winterfell

Our app decreases soldier mortality rates by 20% by increasing white walker confusion.

My name is /u/CoffeeRaider and after visitintgyour website yada, yada.

Dont take my word for it.  Test it out for yourself.
Hey Rude bag,

This will not get much response at all. I send 500-1000 cold emails per day and found that writing emails as if you were talking to the actual person and not as if you are pitching helps immensely.

They really do not care who you are and what you are offering, they are only interested in what helps them (Brutal but the truth).

So my first go to is to broadly bait them so they cannot refuse and get on the call to discuss more in detail later.

Let me know if you need help.
What do you mean "put up some searches"?

Google's entire business model is about selling search data for advertising...
Google doesnt sell your search history + phone number lmao, that's a massive GDPR / privacy breach.

Can you imagine? Someone googles the word "mortgage" BOOM! 850 calls, and they dont stop ever.

Check your phone / computer for spyware. This is highly unusual
Check out myactivity.google.com for all potential info that google has on you to sell. I was shocked that they record and KEEP all of the voice recordings from any google/android device I used!
Duh google adwords 🤣🤣🤣
Instead of searching for the interest of “chef”. 
Hit browse. Then search through behaviors. I think it’s under there somewhere. Or you can type in Chef except don’t click the one that says 3.1 mil. Look to the right of each suggestion and it should say tell you what kind of keyword your targeting.
You need to target people whose job title is Chef, not interest. If the audience size is too small, try to target interests that only professional chefs would have. This might need a little research on your end.
You can target the profession as some suggested. 

Although you might miss some. 

Another way to do that is to filter with the offer. If you decide to stick with the original audience, or your new audience will be too small here s what I suggest: 

3.1 mil people are not a very big audience and you will not spend too much money on showing to them. But if you make sure your offer clearly only matches Chefs, for example: yearly Chef summit, or something. You should not worry too much about the targeting, Facebook will do it for you eventually.
So what is, in your opinion, the difference?

Personally, I don’t think anyone is still using the term SMO anymore?

And SMM encompasses both paid and organic Social Media. So not sure what you are trying to label as SMO.
Definitely something you could do with an Arduino or Raspberry Pi.
Maybe you're referring to smiirl, try googling it
What kind of survey? Are you targeting a specific audience?

What platform will you be using for your survey?
If it's very large, you'll want to give a reward for each person that participates in it.
Use typeform + remember to give some incentive
What is your purpose? This will help. You need to be pretty detailed to get the right answers.
I have used SurveySwap. In fact you fill in other surveys for credits, and you pay credits to the people who filled your survey. You can also pay for credits if you’re lazy tho. You can even target certain demographics (age, country etc). I had around 300 respondents in 2 weeks. Hope this helps! :)
Google forms! How large of a survey?
Take the average CPC from the days where you let it run and the amount you've set it at in the past. Work out the difference then add 10% of that to the target CPC and see what happens. Then add another 10% and repeat.

You need to test your budgets to find a middle ground and get more traffic
How much is your daily ad spend vs your audience size?
Yeah don't do that.  


There are loads of other less-shady/potentially illegal ways of improving your facebook advertising
Regardless of your field/profession, it's never a good idea to quit before you've found another job.
Always a bad idea quitting before you find more work, barring unhealthy circumstances. 

How old is the leadership? Sound like they begrudgingly throw money at content marketing because people told them they had to. If they are looking to hire an unpaid intern to supplement your role, they don't value what you do. So what **does** the company value? Generally, revenue, sales, transaction and customer lifetime. Those are stats a leader understands. Start tracking and reporting your successes in how they affect the earnings of the company, how your efforts create user growth that can be tracked to transactions, and how much loyal users can be expected to add to revenue over the next few years with the proper nourishing through your media role. Make it simple and truthful.

&#x200B;

Also, working with strategy and helping drive the direction of the company using Analytics could be a boost for you, and you may want to try to take some of that responsibility from the agency. My last gig I earned my stripes by stepping in and calling bullshit on several reporting errors the agency sent us. They weren't lazy but they were completely wrong on several important reports that were driving our decision making. Managers and owners hate looking at  reports that they don't understand, and as an intermediary I became essential (until leaders stopped listening to managers and went belly-up).
Work on the certifications \[google ads academy / digital garage \] and then search for a new job. 

My instincts tell me that they won't promote you since they are actively looking for new unpaid interns.
I got my first job at an agency with zero ppc experience through sheer persistence (3 interviews and 2 tests). Just apply and don't take no for an answer.
Not Succeeding is not Failure..True Failure is when close yourself down too early in trying things and work hard..

You gotta try and try until you freakin' get it..

If you really wanna leave it...Leave it after achieving it.

Cheers!
It’s always better to find a new role whilst you are in a job. Wanting to leave to better yourself is more marketable to new employers.
You know what, forget the old way of thinking "don't quit until you have a job". I have quit several times before having a job, and put 100% of my energy into finding a better fit. As long as you have the savings to do so, and the drive to actually make sh\*t happen (in your case, sounds like that is advancing your education), I would advise you to take that leap!
As far as i've known an experienced, as long as you (the customer) have your phone connected to google AND your GPS is on, google just automatically asks you to review places he thinks you've been to based on GPS coordinates. 

You do need to have a gmb set up and running ofc.
Have you left a review in the past? Google will use that previous experience to get you to leave more reviews. It will also take into account the amount of time spent at a location to then determine whether you stayed there long enough to actually use the business.
Google does that automatically, I seems to happen more for a reviewer with a lot of reviews marked as helpful. I wish there was a way to reach out to "helpful" reviewers and invite to the location, but I don't think Google shares that data. Someone smart might be able to scrape that info from r/LocalGuides. "Please review us on Google" signage could get the ball rolling, raffles for review, etc...
Marketing campaigns you’ve worked on, screenshots/PDFs/Print outs of your work. I like to create one-sheets similar to case studies with the problem, my actions, and the results.
I never heard of digital marketers needing a portfolio - is this for your resume or your own agency? I am  not sure you need one - what you need is work experience and growth metrics.
Just be able to prove wins for customers.. best part of digital marketing... Results should be the only thing that matters...
My suggestion: Take a screenshot of the project you are starting to work on (it's Analytics and social media profiles) and compare it with the time when you have worked on the project after a while. that's a great portfolio.
You can create some case studies you have worked on achieved good results, PPT of your work and results.
Hi! HRcat here!

You should present some case studies, reports or analytics about the project you've worked for - it is important showcasing what was **your** part in it! If you had a role in the creative department then adding a great portfolio is a must. 

You can also create great and simple infographics to showcase what you can deliver - or your knowledge about a specific market.  

You're resume/ portfolio should showcase what attributes or skillset you bring to the desired company. If you are content oriented, showcase your writing skills. If you are more data-driven and that is your thing - than analytics should do the job.

No matter what you decide to showcase- make sure you are comfortable speaking about it! It should be yours! We had candidates that brought a booming portfolio, but with no knowledge to back it up - it doesn't hold for long in the interview.

&#x200B;

Good Luck Meow
The gurus don't even scratch the surface of opportunity out there. You can use digital marketing to build and sell your own product/website, you can sell digital marketing services to businesses, you can work  remotely in-house or for an agency.

In just the U.S., businesses spend around $100 billion a year on digital marketing with that number growing every year. 

I have my own clients, do part-time consulting for an agency on the other side of the country, and have my own sites that generate revenue. Tons of opportunities. Check out website broker sites like feinternational.com or empireflippers.com to get a glimpse.
So many people need to learn what digital marketing is lol. Also yes I work as a PPC specialist remotely.
Of course. I have no desire to be a guru personality, but I work from home doing digital marketing for a few good clients
Absolutely, though it depends on the job and the company.
Digital marketing is really just regular marketing except on a computer instead of paper. Can you make a living doing marketing? Yep. So you can make a living doing digital marketing. It's the same thing. In quite a few instances (my own experience included), I do exactly what I would do in a traditional marketing position, I just also happen to work with data from websites and search engines. But I also deal with the analytics side, creating content and campaigns, branding, advertising, determining the effectiveness of past campaigns and how they could be better, optimizing pages, allocating budgets to various marketing initiatives, and calculating the ROI on those initiatives.

Digital marketing gets a bad rep because of misconceptions. It's still marketing.
I currently work in an office leading a team of digital strategists at an agency, but at my last agency I worked from home with a 100% remote team for six years.

Once a year I flew from South Carolina to Boston to work for a week with the rest of our team in person. I also flew to San Francisco once or twice a year for in-person client meetings. 

Other than that, I worked from home all day, full-time, with good salary and benefits. 

Most agencies aren’t great at recruiting, especially for entry-level positions. You’ll need to reach out to agencies on your own and find/make your own opportunities. Once you’ve been in the industry long enough and have been promoted a few times you’ll be fighting off recruiters with a stick, if you’re happy with where you’re at and not looking to move, at least.

Before I got into digital marketing I owned an IT consulting business. My first agency I worked for was all global tech companies, so my IT background was useful. From there I learned from the more senior members of the team and on my own. I don’t have a degree, nor did I have an advertising background (beyond advertising my own business). Now, I’m mentoring and teaching my own team the ropes.
Does it show 'No data' or does it show the error icon?  


It sounds like you might be missing the data range dimension.  


Select the metric you want and on the right column, above 'Metric' you will see 'Date Range Dimension'. Select the same MMYYYY data type you entered above.  


Hope this helped - otherwise please elaborate a little bit more on the issue to see if I can help.
Definitely add a certifications section if you can fit it, similar style to a skills section. 

Digital marketing, and specifically content marketing is a portfolio-heavy field which can be very discouraging for entry-level applicants. Analytics, PPC, and social tool literacy are all great to have in your arsenal, but content creation is a major part of most gigs. If you're being hired to create marketable content, your best bet is to show proof that you can.

Your blog is a good start. Pull and showcase 2-3 excerpts from posts, bonus points if you can show data-driven methods for how your article drove traffic to your blog, whether it be organic, direct, or social. Other than that, consider faux-work. Draft posts for various social platforms for faux-businesses that showcase you know how to navigate those platforms. Write short articles that demonstrate your writing. Create infographics, short videos, and engaging media, etc. Compile it into a portfolio attached to your resume, and you'll land a job in the field. 

It may seem like a LOT of work, but its also a great way to test and practice the skills you're learning in your courses.
I haven't found one GOOD group, most of them are all spam and JUNK
Honestly just based on my opinion, do not drop out. It’s better to have a degree and pursue your other interest in any free time you may have (without sacrificing your studies). Even with a lower GPA, your skills you acquire from the collegiate classes and applying them and practicing while in school and after will aid you in the future. IT is a great career path and in the technologically advancing world and your craft will be sought after. Keep at it! You got this
The it degree might help you figure out some trick stuff in digital marketing... But generally have nothing to do with digital marketing... But if you're out on your own he might figure out some ways to use those skills to get a leg-up or figure out some software that helps you automate something that makes more money while arbitraging.
Let me give you the advice I wish I had gotten: FINISH YOU DEGREE no matter what.  A degree is a giant checkbox that needs to be ticked by the brainless morons that fill so many HR departments.  While you may be thinking now you want to be a business owner for the rest of your life, having a degree will make it so much easier if you ever do want to go get a job somewhere else.  

&#x200B;

...And don't bother with an MBA.  They are on their way out...I don't honestly know why anyone gets MBAs anymore or even hires these people.  Most successful people I know hate working with MBAs because they basically have two tools in their belt:  cutting costs, and outsourcing.  MBAs destroy companies.  If you ever do decide to go for masters, take a few extra classes and switch to a Masters in Marketing, not a Marketing MBA.

&#x200B;

Lastly, having a degree in IT will make you a perfect candidate to do marketing for the IT industry.  The highest paid marketers are extremely niche-focused and have strong backgrounds within their niche.  I'd rather hire someone with an IT degree who learned digital marketing on the side, than a person with a marketing degree who knows nothing about IT.  

&#x200B;

Good luck.
Possessing an IT degree and then pivoting into digital marketing (maybe doing an MBA addon later) is a unique career path. You basically get to work on some of the key stuff guys from business school aren't comfortable with - be it SEO, Google Adwords or Marketing Analytics. Plus if you're a good programmer, you can code your own scripts for data aggregation, mining and most importantly, generating the reports.
Get your IT degree and then look into working in ad tech.
Definitely, especially if your school keeps you up-to-date with the latest practices used in the IT field. IT is always one of the best foundations one can have to excel in the digital marketing industry. Have a degree in IT will give you the advantage.

Plus, the diploma you'll get will speak much about how you got it through college, not to mention it's IT, which is a difficult course.
Sure its really worth . There are many Graduates looking for IT jobs ,Depend on the IT courses you can get a good job in IT Company .
Any history of results to compare to?
What’s the objective - traffic, conversions, reach?
Brand guidelines
Who are their target customers?
What do they like, how do they talk, creative guidelines.

Just a few thoughts.
Be aware that asking your client what they want is different than asking "what business problem do you need solved?" 

For example, a client who insisted they needed to get more website traffic actually needed to tweak the code on their shopping cart. They had the right amount of traffic but their website was impossible to use.  

Clients who are not marketing experts can accurately tell you the results they want, and need your help in figuring out how to achieve those results.
Congrats but what exactly you asking
1. I would only go for that particular niche if you are an authentic part of that scene and already have connections. Obviously your agency should then be branded as conscious, wholesome, etc.

2. Are you interviewing the kind of entrepreneurs you want to become your clients? If yes, the podcast should help with your branding and provide a wider network of contacts. 

3. If you cater to the vegan/PT niche, I would rather go full-service. If you cater to everyone, I would focus on just one discipline first. 

4. Depends. Most businesses blogs are a waste of time. If you have a plan for writing the kind of content that brings you clients or demonstrates your expertise, sure, do it.
Something to think about. What is it you want from these potential fans/community?

Do you want more people to listen to your music?

Do you want more people to enjoy your music?

Do you want them to buy your music?

Do you want your music to used more?

Figuring out what you want from the incoming people will help figure out where to look and how to bring them in.
Build a quality blog/site  create a  separate Facebook page and join groups that share your interests, create a YouTube channel and add daily content which you should already have. In my view post a video every day for at least 3 weeks. So 21 videos.  Add all the other social network platforms. Get familiar with what your other people in your market are  doing and  copy there strategies (not their work) in your style. Spend a few weeks on each platform one at a time, that will get you more confident and you will soon see by testing what works and what doesn't. 

Making genuine connections is easy, probably the easiest way would be to be active in groups or forums in your field. and then all you have to do is be genuine. Worst mistake in my opinion would be to try and be someone you are not that just attracts the wrong audience... Focus should be on branding yourself as you are the product.

Hope that helps
You might read some books on networking. A lot of them were written before digital marketing became a thing but the concepts are the same, if the execution is a bit different. 

What is your goal? You want fans, why? What is your final product that you are selling? 

FWIW one man musician operations aren't that unusual, with loopers and/or backing tracks you could certainly do something live. There are a ton of opportunities for amateur musicians to play so to eliminate that as an avenue of developing a reputation or following seems pretty short-sighted, to me. Those events cost you nothing but your time.
First thing is to build social media pages for your work. This could just be your personal account or you have separate "artist" accounts. Post quality content and post it often. For example, if you have a gig somewhere and need to fill seats you can run local Facebook Ads with an offer maybe from the place you're playing at. If you are at a bar headline could be: 
GREAT MUSIC GREAT DRINKS
Come in and watch me play at ______ and receive a $10 drink voucher
(Not the best thing but an example)
The idea of the offer is to make it pretty big so people actually want it. That's all in the people that own the event space.
I would find someone on youtube who made it big but had  to start from nothing - there is lots of them. Study their journey then use it as a guideline. I can sit here and write a 3000 word essay from a technical point of view why this is good advance but I cant do that. chances are youre not the first one or last one to do this so learn from those who have done it and honestly- copy them until youre comfortable branching off and developing youre own technique. I would research youtube heavily and make a spreadsheet of your findings. I could give more technical answer but its not gonna help you.

&#x200B;

Good source on modeling business/youtube channel: Tim Ferris
There are Instagram accounts that repost content from other accounts to make fun oh them. Even these only get some of their content deleted (if the original creators and their followers report it) but rarely banned. So Instagram does not seem to have an issue with reposting.

The bloggers you repost might have an issue. Ideally you ask via DM before reposting their content.
Most of the time accounts ask ops of they can repost, and as long as credit is given, its fine. There are a lot of IG accounts that do nothing but repost, gain followers, then use those followers to start making money on adds, pay per click, and sponsored content.
I do a lot of reposting for clients, and typically as long as you tag and credit the original poster you shouldn't have an issue.
Digital marketing is such a broad term and the roles within each company vary immensely.  

That being said, the answer is a lot.
Senior marketing director here ( 6 years) - typically 3 hours of work generate about one day of productivity so i spend the first 3 days of the week working (8 hours each day minus lunch)  and the rest of the week analyzing data so by the end of the week I am quiet ahead. Lot's of spreadsheets, content calendars and scrum meetings every morning. Productivity tools and actionable items help a lot. I believe in breaking the day into sprints with one 10 minute break every hour. It's really not about the quantity of hours worked but the quality of your work and how you can complete your tasks as effectively as possible. A lot of my habits i derived from playing chess where you wanna make your moves as economical yet as effective as possible so your positioning is always favorable by the end game.
I’m in growth marketing and I’d say executing on campaigns is like 4 hours a day? Rest is just researching and planning for campaigns.
I probably go on Reddit for about an hour a day (as I'm doing right now). However, most of the time I do spend working.
Are you at an agency?  I'm in-house and "slow" doesn't exist.
I constantly feel like I'm behind, so I don't have a lot of slack time. Between creating content calendars, scheduling posts, sifting through campaign and web analytics data, creating graphics, writing proposals,  researching and double checking budgets and ROI, drafting email campaigns, looking at past campaign performance and planning out upcoming campaigns... on top of weekly meetings and keeping other departments out of trouble... my days are full.

I also have a tendency to take work home with me.
I does not count my work in hour on the other hand the results of my work is better parameter.
10 hours? Occasionally I get burnt out and “slack off” but even that just means I’m looking at stuff on social media or reading digital marketing articles.
Depend on work, as we are agency so it's compulsory to attain office regular, sometimes weekend too.
I work at a small agency. We haven’t been “slow” in over a year. So I’m working about 7.5 hours/day on average. I always have more work to do than I can get to in a day. But our company culture emphasizes work life balance, so if an employee is consistently putting in more than 40 hours/week there’s often a rebalancing of workloads (or generous bonuses/salary increases).
I am a digital marketing manager for over 80 hotels and I work 8 straight hours minimum 5 days a week.
Talking from experience Do not do MBA in Digital marketing also the coaching institutes who provide certifications are not worth at all. If you really interested in digital marketing then dive in practical go buy domain start blogging or you can start on blogger for free then after some experience you would know what to do."certification won't help" knowledge and experience will certainly do. Goodluck
Just go and get a job. You’ll learn as much in 3 months as you did in three years doing your degree.
How much experience do you have?
as someone who has been in this field successfully for over 11 years I'm not even to sure how but digital marketing degree would be relevant. 
I literally have a complete sea change in my business model at least once a year.

I would tell you that I can count on one hand the number of people in my industry that earn 7 figures or more that have digital marketing degrees much less a Masters degree.... But I would have to chop off my hands because the number is 0. 

I know more than I actually have GEDs..

Digital marketing is more about problem solving, initiative and persistence.... Yes you need to be somewhat bright and be able to think creatively... The rest of the skills you can learn online mostly for free or find a mentor..... Or if you want to go to the agency route were you just handle people's basic needs without needing to get them results..... You know setting up SEO basic email basic web page then just go for working for a company that does that and learn why you get paid what they are doing..... Hint hint mostly offshoring all that work and closing accounts and keeping on top of their offshore workers....

When you are really good at digital marketing you don't work for somebody else because you have the skill position and all you need is an internet connection and a computer to make money....You don't even need a computer to public library will give you them for free for a week at a time....

Edits.  Sorry typos talk to text.. you know what i mean..
As someone who went to grad school before really diving into digital marketing, no it's not worth it at all.  

I'd wait until you reach a point in your career where a masters will help you get the next promotion. That day probably won't ever come, since this is a field judged by results more than credentials.

IMO, on-the-job experience is what's most valuable for you right now. Internships, entry level marketing jobs, etc. Build a portfolio, get some professional references, find out what you like to do, and earn some money.
 I received my Master's last October. I think it's totally worth.
What do you want to do with it? Ecomm director? yes.
I would think hands on experience would be more valuable. Also, you can get google certifications for free at ad academy.
No way. Get some experience and then go get a masters focused on Analytics or something along those lines. It will be infinitely more valuable. But whatever you do, get a few years of experience first.
I would suggest that you do a "techy" masters, data analytics, IT, web dev something like that. 

In my opinion MSc is definitely worth it.

I am just about to start MSc IT as it gives me more insight into related programming. Moreover, I live in a city with 4 large universities and a huge college. There are more than 500 applications for every marketing internship which makes it almost impossible to get and MSc can get you just a little bit farther. 

I also plan to move to Canada and MSc gives me more points in express entry but that's just an added bonus ;-)

Anyway, all the people I spoke with who did MSc told me that it is definitely worth it (UK here).
Digital marketing is one of the hottest topic of discussion these days because of the growing interest and heavy usage of different social media account by billions of users.

After completing my graduation I always wanted to open my business, but as I entered the world of business I found that every businesses are setting their business in different social media sites, and are enjoying the outcome of doing so. This thing grabs my attention and then I opted for doing masters in Digital marketing first, to take my business online.
In our marketingcat opinion, no, it's not. Better take a short course, start an internship and learn along the way.

Practices and tools change in crazy pace, and there is no second to acquired experience - yes, it will be more demanding and you'll probably feel a little in a fog. But you can achieve a lot in 6 months in terms of knowledge and understanding.

&#x200B;

Good luck Meow!
If you only want to be a cog in the wheel of a proctor and gamble brand or some similar then the 100k in extra debt might work out. Most of the successful digital marketers I know either have no degree or an irrelevant bachelors like psychology or music, and definitely no masters.
Depends on your desired career path. If your goal is to run a $100m departmentb for a major brand than it would help you achieve that role.
Traffic is a result of people visiting your site (of course), so you must be giving them a reason to visit! 

Start with your broad networking circle, and recommend people check it out. If the content and design is good people will return and Google will start improving your rankings. 

The best and quickest way to get people visiting your site is utilising Google Ads (search or display predominantly) and leveraging keywords/SEO/targeting to display ads to your ideal customers, attracting them to your site (this method is a lot more likely to lead to legitimate customers and grow your user base, ultimately that’s business: gotta spend money to make money).
Focus more on SEO then do google ads, facebook ads and other social platforms if you can't do it yourself hire someone
Hopefully you have Google Search Console connected to your website. If so, look at the query information, and specifically look for queries where your site has impressions but the average position is > 10 (so on page 2+ of search results).

If the queries are keywords you'd like to generate more traffic for, build up the content on your website about these topics. Specifically make sure you are offering valuable content around those topics and answering the questions (if they are questions) people are searching for. 

Since you are already showing up on page 2 or 3 of search results for these keywords, there's a likelihood with some work you could rank higher and get more traffic from them.
I’d go to the IT or CS route then get an MBA for the business skills.
Most of the digital marketing stuff isn’t taught at university anyways, you need to learn in the job or from online courses/certifications
Keep your major and learn / read as much as you can about digital marketing. 

Here's my advice (I literally did this) - create a website and learn SEO, Social Media and Email. Create a website about something you're interested in and write content (or pay someone), get relevant graphics (learn or pay someone) and get the site to rank.

When you graduate - show your project to employers. It will be enough to land you a job. I've been working on side hustles since College and was able to land a pretty sweet gig in NYC right after graduation. FYI, I also majored in Comp Sci and had an internship as a front-end developer.
No, you don’t have to switch your major. 

I was a CS major student back in the day, and got my first job as a marketing specialist in digital marketing, and moved to project management later. 

I’m not sure about your situation, but for me, I’m a Chinese and studied in the US, and then went back to China. My first company hired me simply bc I’m good at English, and play a lot of games. (I’m working in the mobile game industry) 

You don’t really learn digital marketing in school, so the major isn’t that important. In my company, the marketing department has to kinds of jobs. One is play with Facebook and/or google adwords accounts, which require experiences which you can get once you start your job. The other one is more like project management, you need to communicate with ppl a lot, and need to know all the things relate to digital marketing and  the project you are working on. 

From my experience, ppl majoring in CS, math and statistics may even have an advantage sometime. 

I’m not sure if I answers your question. Can me if you want to know more.
Digital marketing has become far easier in the last 5 years, from when I started you 100% needed to understand coding. These days you only need a digital marketing platform. 

The good ones, and there are several options give you all the tools and training you need. Not overly expensive. The market is wide open with every local business crying out   for help. 

They have no idea how to sort out hosting, build a site sort out ssl certificates and everything else. Most of them are not advertising correctly, not targeting there visitors not building subscriber lists. The list goes on...
I can share with you some thoughts.

I mayors in marketing and just got my first full-time job in digital marketing a month ago for a Ecommerce startup. For starters, knowledge in CS and statistics help alot in number-crunching and differentiating good and bad KPIs in FB business, GA, Google ads. The last digital marketer before me was in such sense and her previous campaigns was efficient with many metrics that she tested and compared. 

What she lacks or at least 
need improving is layering/segmenting customers targeting with regards to both behavioral psychology and lacks of product knowledge. For your case, a good throughout read on some core marketing books and applications should helps imagining the bigger picture when there is so much more than just data. But in the end, data expertise will be the cross point for business scaling and implementing automation. Just my 2cents, I wish I mayored in CS.
I have been doing paid search for 4 years. Research this carefully before you choose this career path. If you go work for an agency (which is where most of the work is) you may have a heavy workload, long nights, terrible employers, bad benefits, bad pay etc. You are not going to make good money unless you become a director $100k+ or somehow figure out how to make a % of the client's media spend.

Doing SEO is a precarious situation because it's difficult to prove the worth of SEO unlike with paid search.

Paid search is difficult because you're dealing with other people's money. So they want to see a really good return on their investment while combating so many issues like rising cpcs.

My colleagues who do programmatic think it's difficult getting quick decisions, all the digital assets quickly and ever shifting demands.

Look into all the different types of coding jobs because they make way more than digital marketers without being a manger. If you really think digital marketing is interesting develop that on the side.
 Yes
Look into A/B testing. I minored in CS and majored in a humanities/social psychology thing.

Front end coding/tracking/test setup is light work in the coding world, but combining it with marketing knowledge and tactics can make it a powerful hybrid roll.

Downside is that many jobs are at agencies, and not all companies actively test.

Just a thought. It is how I salvaged a really weird life path, lol.
Just apply.

Agencies are desperate for help these days. They are willing to hire people that don't have that much experience but rather good knowledge about digital marketing concepts. You already have the certifications, which shows the employer that you care about learning.
ye go knock doors and have high energy, if you're really desesperate or need a job, you can offer volunteering to gain trust.
Totally possible and sounds like you are off to a decent start with getting certifications! I'd also take HubSpot's free inbound marketing certification, which will give you more info on email, SEO, content, marketing automation, etc.

But like others have said, apply to a marketing agency. I started out that way, learned ALOT, they also are willing to teach you too. It can elevate your marketing career. Don't expect to make a lot of money right away, but in two years I gained so much knowledge and doubled my salary.

Also consider an internship or take on some part time contract marketing work to boost your resume/knowledge bank. 

Best of luck!
First learn the details of topic u want to apply for jobs. if you are planning for social media make sure you learn about specific topics like FB, FB Ads, IG, YouTube etc. So you can show your skills to employer. You can also apply for internship and then based on performance get permanent position.
How about taking up internships? That's the easiest doorway to establish yourself for a digital marketing role within any company;  Try it for 2-3 months, learn as much as you can and do your best to impress, if they like you, quite likely you'll get converted to full time. as an intern, people expect less from you, so this is the best time for you to shine!
You can use the Udemy's The complete digital marketing course to get started on what you could do as a digital marketer. there are other more detailed courses as well but it's a good start. good luck
I got into digital marketing at an entry level by knowing someone is the business, however another person came on right before me as an intern, because of his eagerness to succeed  and the work he put in, he was offered a full time position within 2-3 months... just a little encouragement, give it a try!
Just wanted to wish you best of luck, I’m in the same boat!! I’m currently a Spanish/ESOL teacher but want this to be my last year, aka I want to be done teaching in June and start a new job in August. I’ve been studying on my own like crazy. It’s nerve-wracking to think about job searching in a completely new field, but this post makes me feel hopeful. Best of luck to you!!!
It IS possible. I was in the exact same situation about 8 months ago. It took me about 2 months after leaving my current job at the time to learn everything I could about digital marketing, which might seem too short a time to learn about DM, but since I had a background in marketing/advertising (being a communication arts graduate), everything I studied within the 2-month time frame was easy to digest.

With the right mindset and attitude, you too can land that digital marketing job!
Take Seth Hymes digital marketing course if you have the money. I landed a job in 2 months with that course, Seth is a genius. If you're looking for free or inexpensive course, check out Udemy and Lynda.
Start applying NOW. Don't wait until after you gain good experience because I'm telling you right now...this career doesn't require a fancy degree, or years and years of experience. Definitely try to get the Facebook Blueprint certification but other than that, most of the skills you will learn will be on the job so don't worry too much about experience.
ROI/ROAS. Same as every year!
Clicks
I would want to see repeat users increasing that were sourced first in social, too.
Apply.
There's like 5 of these threads a day haha, but yeah search within reddit you'll find what you're looking for.
Look it up on search tab of this subreddit
Apply. There definitely isn’t a shortage of jobs. Do know there’s high turn over and it’s not as glamorous as you think.
If you're an SEO professional offering SEO services, you need to be using the paid tools, in general. There's a reason they cost money. I don't really use any free tools, except gtmetrix or builtwith.com
Look on a site called "siftery'
I have a cracked version of the screaming frog
Ubersuggest by Neil Patel, they just added a bunch of new features.
It will be incredibly useful for targeting all 4 of the people who haven’t switched their default search engine on internet explorer to the useful one.
Just remember that while it might “work” you should evaluate the benefit for the effort. Most of the time, BING’s contribution to the business is so small that the effort outweighs the benefit.
Try Udemy or Lynda for digital marketing courses. when you buy Udemy courses, make sure you wait for the discount 'season' (which is ever 2 weeks and gives you 90% off lol). not sure if that applies for lynda too though.  


but yeah hubspot and GA work well as a base too. get the GAIQ certification while you're at it.
We have a free SEO course at seo101.com/course
Facebook blueprint if you're looking to run media at all; I think it costs around $300. You can also start taking webinars: emarketer, Adweek and Adage all have good ones.
Try iDeators technologies in Mumbai for Digital marketing courses.
Check out **RankdSEO.com** **backlink database**. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of high-authority websites.

I use it myself. Gave Access to my VA, and he's building links for me based on the guides.
Selfgrowth.com
There are lot of sites that have high DA and provide dofollow backlinks. I advice you just search it on Google and you will find lot of site matching your preferred criteria.
Are you testing from the app on your phone or desktop? I’d imagine adding another redirect with linktree would only make it longer.
It's a lag across the board, because it's waiting for the browser to open and process the request. In my experience linktree doesn't fix the speed issue.

Android is slighty better than iPhone, but an option is to get a quick landing page built just for IG that's pretty minimalist to keep your load time even lower to make up for the browser delay.
Absolutely finish. You never know what your future will hold and it's so much harder to go back later in life. Use the remainder of your time there to network and get a good internship, it's all about who you know. 12 years on I'm still somewhat professionally connected to someone I met through my college internship.
Just finish the degree to avoid any future barriers. Also, it  supports that you're educated, able to finish a project to the end, well written, etc. Etc.
If you can't communicate why your Communications degree is a good thing, maybe you missed a key module.
Communication works well with \[digital\] Marketing, so consider finishing it.
What have you been using to tech yourself SEM/SEO? I want to teach myself as well but am having trouble finding good content. Any advice/tips ?
I'd suggest you to finish your degree. It is quite relevant to your interest in digital marketing and will help you a lot with developing the right content. Also, some jobs need you to be at least graduate.
I think it is.
Not worth it.
Finish it, but be smart about it! Use this time to make as many connections as you can. Look for internships, fellowships and learning opportunities. Get to know your fellow students. Familiarize yourself with the career services office. Go to your professors’ office hours. And of course actually go to class and pay attention.

The job market changes all the time, what’s in demand now will not be in demand forever. A college degree will help you be more resilient to market changes. Done right, the experience will also help you grow as a person.
Finish your degree. You don't know what will happen in the future - you might decide you want to work in a corporate setting in which case not having a degree won't get you far. 

For context, in my company, I only hire people with degrees. It's not PC but there are some places that won't give you a chance without one. Get it over with.
My boss just got a job as a Communications Manager making like 6 figures (5 years experience) I think it’s worth it!
Don't do it, it's not worth it. Apply for jobs, work hard on networking, get experience, that'll put you way ahead of a lot of people.
Having the degree will help you a lot in the long run - not getting it could be the worse decision you ever made.
Hey 

I can give you 4 services to make your small business into a BRAND
Pm me
Happy to help. Pm me?
Hey!

I’ve done some consultancy with brands before.

Drop me a line.
There's definitely attribution and/or third party ad serving that will help prove in your media, unfortunately, Facebook and Google both are "walled gardens" that only let you see post-click activity/conversion events and not post impression.

The FB reporting pixel I believe will let you also see post impression, however, you would need to define conversion events (form fill, live chat etc) and set up that tracking on your site.
If possible, have you tried Google Analytic attribution model comparisons before? How I can convince clients that awareness campaigns/channels are working is by looking at first click interactions versus last click interactions. Naturally, these awareness campaigns will not show much last click interaction but should show you some decent first click interaction conversions. Hope that helps.
Nice post
You want to look into how Facebook handles view-through conversions. Install the FB pixel and set up your desired conversions; once set up right FB will be able to report how many people who only saw your ad (without clicking on it) later converted. You won’t be able to track on a per person basis though, but it should help you see if you’re having effects.
You can do some of what you're talking about with Assisted conversions, view through and top paths to conversion.

That being said the best value in view through for complete consumer journey are display ads. Not just through GDN but actual tracked and pixeled users who saw and ad and took an indirect action (saw a display ad but later converted thru organic or another channel). The value of enterprise programmatic solutions are that it isn't a walled garden of users like Google and Facebook. With a DMP you can create even more audience and segmentation. 

What's your display/programmatic solution today? Are you using GDN, DBM or something else if any?
[removed]
You could ask your google reps if they have anything, look at google trends yoy or create a specific ppc campaign to capture the specific words in your campaign in your next social media campaign. 

&#x200B;

Good luck.
You're going to have to track your conversions in 3 ways:

&#x200B;

\- Facebook Pixel: this allows you to see facebook conversions (both post click and post impression);

\- Linkedin Pixel: Allows you to see Linkedin Post-impression conversions

\- Google Analytics: this allows you to see all conversions except facebook and Linkedin post-impression. It also allows you to deduplicate your facebook and linkedin conversions. The top conversion paths and model attribution comparison can help you, but it won't track when a facebook and linkedin ad impact only with impressions;

&#x200B;

Alternatively you can look into Doubleclick and trafficking your ads with tracking ads. But it will only work if your targeting on Facebook is not based on your custom audiences.
Another option is that you can get another phone number for them, use only that number in your ads so that they can see how many calls they get from ads.
Maybe a way to hack IFTTT?
Would Zapier or something similar work? You could also probably write a Slack bot to do this depending on the platform you use.
[deleted]
I just got a job in digital marketing having only taken 5 marketing classes. I am the first digital marketer for a healthcare clinic. I do not think that opportunities are running out. If anything they are increasing. As for training, I do have a degree in communication. You can do things on your own like getting certified in Google AdWords.
It's never too late.
Its just getting started and still growing tremendously. The best part about learning how to be a digital marketer and working for somebody for a little while is is that you become good enough to just do it on your own and make the full profit.....

I still can't fathom why anyone who is skilled enough to run good campaigns doesn't jump to affiliate marketing and  just work for themselves.
Never too late. Land an interview for an entry level job and prove your work ethic. You'll learn everything along the way. I've hired folks with no experience compared to those with tons. You can't teach work ethic and unfortunately this business is filled with way too many entitled and lazy folks who don't care to learn or stay late to be team players.
The secret tip of any profession how to earn more is to love what you're doing. 

If you really ineterested in  digital marketing industry, it's never to late. And you don't need to take a university course to become an expert, actually.  But if you want it because of ease and popularity you may be disappointed in the process of studying/working
It’s never too late, if anything now is a great time to get into digital. But it’s far from easy!
It's never too late to do anything... unless you're trying to enter a kids talent show at age 40
It's absolutely not too late!

In fact, it's the perfect time. There has never been an easier time to get online and break into the digital space.

Sure, there's more competition than there was 5 years ago, but with the right attitude and hard work you can soar above the rest because they don't have the drive.

I myself started digital marketing 2 years ago after locking myself away from the world for almost a decade.

I now earn 5 figures a month from affiliate marketing and have traveled the world speaking on stage about my transformation. 

It's never too late! :)
Absolutely not Infact it is high time you start learning and exploring this platform . Digitalization of platforms has just started hence the market is absolutely vaccant .
It's never too late! Competitive, yes, but you can do it. Learn a lot, ask questions, take free courses, and you'll get into a nice starter gig. Don't expect to make a huge salary at first, but if you get really passionate, creative, and good at it, in a few years you can be six-figures+. Best of luck!
Absolutely not! 

Meow and meow people consume their media via their smart devices, many business owners don't have the time or the necessary understanding of how the market works!

Digital marketing is evolving with the technology around it. Expect it to expand into VR and AR in the following years.

There is a big chance that some of the jobs are going to be automated - but that is more relevant to specific tasks. We believe that the automation will only change the way the Digital Marketing Industry works and involve with it.
Marketing is simply more saturated than before. It's not like the opportunity has disappeared completely. Work hard and seek opportunity. 

Tons of businesses out there without any competent marketing departments.
Too late? No this is the beginning  Google has only been round since  1996 and Facebook since 2004. Digital marketing is at an early stage although it moves extremely quickly with new and more advanced tools being introduced on a seemingly daily basis. In fact it moves so quickly that small businesses cant keep up. Added to that things like SEO, SSL certificates GDPR, Facebook pixels are all things that in allot of cases are being overlooked and opportunities within this niche.
Digital Marketing is very good field and you can start learning anytime. You can easily get new job after completing digital marketing course. You can also do freelancing and earn good money through digital marketing. 

Please note that nothing is easy, you have to work hard and put your best efforts. Once you become proficient in your any field you will get ample of good opportunities.
paid ads, content, freebies, social media links and check what works in order to adjust.
1. Learn just the basics of Google Analytics [https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/) . Not just to understand how your marketing efforts are going but also to ensure that your agency is not manipulating data while reporting. 
2. Create a Facebook business account & ads account & give them access to that account instead of vice versa.
3. Learn a little about Facebook analytics (very easy to understand).
4. You will only need Facebook & Insta. Twitter is a plus, but if you have to pay extra for that don't. Twitter is exclusively for political battles, at least here in India.
5. "TRY" pinterest  as it still dominates the image search in Google and you are selling clothes/accessories. You can get a lot of free traffic & luckily sales from there. but be aware that there are very few users of pinterest in India & most of the users are females which is good actually (Because they buy more as compared to males. 
6. Instgram is going to be your best friend, close second is Facebook. Make sure your agency has extremely good graphic designers, because image is everything, everything is image (rockstar)
7. Last but most important "**own every account you/they create in your company's name on any platform".** One way to do it is, create a gmail account with your company name, share the password with only one person from the agency (Digital marketing manager)  and then let them create accounts on Google My Business, Google Search console & Google Analytics. But make sure you are ADMIN on every platform. 

Other then that, you can PM me if you have any specific question.
Search sucks for fashion. I’d say the best bet is to go #wokeaf in the brand positioning and make deals with lesser known Instagram models.
You have taken right decision by hiring digital marketing agency. You can do below activities to promote your new website.

Optimize website from search and user point of view. If your website is user friendly then search engine also love your website.

Review your competitor website and check what they are doing.

Syndicate useful content on third party high authority website.

Start PPC campaign for generating conversions.

Use social media accounts( Facebook, Intagram) for brand promotion and generating leads. 

Review Google Analytics account and webmaster account on weekly basis and take necessary steps.
If you follow the way that is use in 2018 you wont be getting the same results as the advertisement are getting expensive and you need to find the way that is effective and you need to keep experimenting.

Hey buddy i am also from india.
Happy to help
Yes this will work, not only based there, create good content and ask for guests post this article will help you on how to get your
I don't know about Tumblr but I'm pretty sure Reddit and Quora are only nofollow links.

&#x200B;

It still can be worth posting on these sites to build awareness especially within your niche, but I don't think it's worthwhile for linkbuilding.
To create good backlinks you have to create good content on quality sites - guest posts and influencers. Social Media is great for creating brand loyalty (meow, exactly what we do here) - that's also why so many big brands spend so much on SMM. It's their way of staying relevant in the public.

&#x200B;

So only using Quora and Reddit is not enough. 

If you want quality backlinks - create a blog and articles. Make sure that your content has a value for the market targeted. 

Remember, backlinks are like votes - not all of them are created equal. You can have a random account posting thousands of comments with a link to a website or reliable blogger post 2 via his website, guess which one is going to have more impact? One random person saying that drinking water is important or Joe Rogan saying the same thing, who is going to have more impact?

Creating quality backlinks take time and effort. If you are looking to bring more clients - Email marketing has way bigger conversion then Social Media Posts, especially for small businesses.

&#x200B;

Good luck Meow!
Google Docs with folders, Trello, and calendar. That's it!
Google Docs + EverNote + Google Calendar and iOS Calendar synched up.  I'm also super OCD in terms of staying organized, but I don't necessarily spend a lot of time (or any money at all) to do so.
asana
Hi!

We use tools like Trello, Monday and especially Google Docs and Google Calendar!

&#x200B;

The most important tip is to break down your tasks to smaller tasks - put them in your calendar and work on it!

Good luck meow!
I use a bullet journal! I used normal planners religiously in school but most of them weren't quite the right format for work
Remember the milk is an amazing tool and not just for work. I use it to manage all of my tasks, for today, tomorrow and into the future. Highly recommend, but you have to be religious about using it across all platforms. 
I used to use wunderlist but it wouldn’t load when I was on the subway. Remember the milk is way more stable and does a better job of syncing across multiple platforms.
I use Monday - and I have a notebook with a table of contents that I carefully keep track of for different topics...kinda like a bullet journal but not really
I will not work without Asana. It’s better if a team uses it but it’s quite useful on its own as well.
Trello for tasks, Drive for file storage and documents, Slack for chat. my team haven’t invested into any schedulers yet so i just use Facebook for scheduling.
am I a dork for emailing myself to do lists before I close for the day?

Some great tips here. I am a huge fan of Evernote because I am cutting & pasting all the time but I really need a way to put it all together. Thanks for the insights!!
Google calendar linked with all my accounts

Physical agenda to write out notes so I can write everything down as it comes. 

Social media scheduling tools 

CRM for sales and account management (hubspot for full time job, streak for side businesses)
Wunderlist 
For short term projects I can add other people to my list, create tasks with sub tasks, add notes to my tasks and upload related files to each. I also have tasks for personal things like groceries since I have the app on my phone and can add them on the fly.
* Outlook Calendar for time-boxed tasks.
* Confluence tasks (with deadlines) for checklist kind of things and for tasks associated with certain people/groups/teams.

In the past I have also used .txt files. And Trello. And Wunderlist. All systems worked. But Outlook Calendar plus Confluence seems to work the best for me.
Get an entry level job and/or find a small business client to work for.
Although it is super important to watch and learn strategies it is easy to be caught in the trap of never really taking action. If it was me I would start by narrowing down the niche for example SEO, website creation, anchor pages, email marketing. Once you have narrowed down your niche to one in which you have the most confidence in for example SEO I would then research local companies that have sites with poor rankings send them a free SEO report with your contact details and then move on to the next one, you have to know and understand your target market.
Is to learn new skills
You can practice on your own project! Star a Wordpress blog, promote your friends business for part of generated leads or look for an entry-level position. You don't know how much you still have to learn until you really implement your skill in real life.

&#x200B;

Good luck Meow!
Super cool that you love digital marketing! It’s crazy that in the past 3 years I’ve gone from being targeted by fashion ads to webinars on Facebook advertising - says a lot about how my personal interests have changed, and my love for digital marketing!

If you have a family member or a friend who has a their own business volunteer to do some digital marketing for a couple of hours a week. No one in their right mind could say no to some good digital marketing. Even if it’s some content marketing and basic SEO. There’s so many tools that offer freemium which could get you so far.

Also, set some goals. If you love digital marketing then apply it to your career (if you haven’t already). Like, where would you want to be in 10 years with digital marketing? Setting goals like this will help you find the right place to gain the appropriate experience. If you know you want to be a digital marketing manager in the future then you could say a marketing agency is a good fit for you to gain access to different elements of digital.
I did brand, digital, community, social and more for AAA games over the last decade. Shoot me a DM.
Feel free to message me :)
Tell them to suck a fat one
I've done this. You can manually submit the video to other companies. Look them up and you'll see part on their site. 

I licensed a vid yo storyful. They gave me some $ every few months, but it wasn't from YouTube. I think it was from Facebook views or allowing news stations to play it. 

Because YouTube changed their partnership and monetization policies, I'd license the vid.
Do some research!  Take some time to explore Youtubers, books and blogs. What are you interested in or what are your skills? SEO, Design, Social media agency?

There's demand now for managing ads, I think you can check out /r/Entrepreneur or r/Seo por good stories of work.
You’re on the right platform if you want to brush up your skills. I learn so much weaving in and out of comments on Reddit. 

Sometimes when I feel like updating myself on a certain area of digital marketing, I’ll go places like Growthackers or Zest. I can choose by topic and then pick an article that catches my eye. It’s a good way to find new experts in the field.

The number 1 way to improve your skills is to just apply whatever you’ve learned into practice, but evolve your own techniques.
Tbh, by reading books and reading blogs are not enough to be learning efficiently and effectively. I would suggest a you learn from the best of the best through: 

social media (hacking into your social media account by unfollow those not helping you in terms of growth and start following how successful marketing entrepreneur, follow hashtags related to what you want to learn, or follow well known advertising or digital agency who create contents on social media), 

books (before you buy the book, search for its reviews and its brief overview, make sure it matched your interest or what you are eager to learn), 

articles in pinterest (follow relevant boards, after learning something new through other platforms, create pin and write about all knowledge in you and publish it there. Best way to learn is to teach), 

linkedin (understand more in business perspective), 

Medium (keep yourself updated on what is new in your industry)
Ads don't necessarily go to people in your data base but rather people you tell Google to target.

Are you trying to remarket off your crm list?
Is it a new integration you recently set up? Hubspot wouldn’t know about where the leads came from if you just set it up, I don’t believe?
You might need to set up some additional tracking methods in GTM. Are you cross domain linking by any chance?
 

Hello

I am a digital marketer and have been so for about 8 years. Google adwords has always been something I provide my clients.

Recently within the last 2 years, roughly, I'd say a year to be fair, Adwords, to me, has become a nightmare. Their customer service reps are as nice as can be, but never know what's going on. It takes me weeks and often multiple conversations with adwords reps to get campaigns going. 

Undeerstand, I shouldn't be considered a rookie. 

My question: am I the idiot that just doesn't know anything or couldn't keep up with adwords fast changing pace or are they seriously screwed up over there at headquarters? Every campaign seems to be a giant pain in the you know what. It is unsettling what I have to do to get a campaign launched these days. I am asking if others experience this and Google has really dropped the ball or am I just a "rookie" that thinks he knows what he's doing because he's been in the game for so long.
Lol Dan Lok is that you?
Best. Advice. Ever
Very true
"Jab jab jab, Hook." By Gary V. Give something, earn trust, respect and then ask. Good advice.
Not always the case it mostly consists on how witty you are in promoting your products. Most of the marketers go for constantly marketing their products which makes them look like a person who is just there to sell their stuff and not help the community in any way.
True 
Truth
That is an interesting question: DM + WD for the short term, DM + DS for the future.

If you want to work for a major corporation then the DS is the way to go since you need to make sense of data on the fly. 

IMHO, the intersection is DM + WD + data visualization. Granted, data visualization can be somewhat confusing since there are a lot of options: R, Js, powerBI etc. 

If you want pure technical skills then: digital marketing, front end development and data visualization is the way to go. 

It goes without saying that, it all depends on the country and the industry you want to target / penetrate. 

&#x200B;

Hope it helps.
I thought you have to choose second one digital marketing + Web development because both are related to each other and if you have great knowledge of web development, digital marketing is easy for you.
Fb doesn’t like more than 10% writing imo. Relevancy to targeting parameters is important too, keep in mind.
If their presence is very small, I would suggest you to start with a benchmark vs competitors. What they do, where, try to estimate budgets / audiences.. charts will be naturals to build then.
Coschedule has some templates for free that are a good starting point. Just google them
Hinge Marketing has some good stuff, but most of it isn’t free. If you are just working out a plan and need a course of action and templates, look at their offerings and see if one of the classes is in budget and has the templates and guidance you need. Sometimes its worth paying for stuff like this. 

I am not affiliated with Hinge in any way, but I have used and received value for their stuff, and it is generally at an attractive price point if you sign up, do the stuff, grab the materials, and be done. 
Have you tried LinkedIn ads?
Google Adwords have been working on their algorithms to determine "quality leads" to your website, to essentially filter out those low budget customers that you don't want. 

It can take a few weeks for the machine learning to be carried out - Especially if you haven't used PPC much before. With campaigns like shopping you can assign target ROAS to get the ball rolling for the machine learning. 

&#x200B;

I work for a brand that sells £££ products, the main issue with our PPC is that our target market are of the older generation - They'll just click on the first link they see. It's resulted in a high cost but the ROI makes it worthwhile. 

&#x200B;

Of course SEO is always best, since it's the free traffic. There's no reason why you can't work on both.
Personally, I'm on the side of any "Self Made Digital Marketing Guru" is full of shit, and they are the biggest problem with the digital marketing industry right now. Most of these guys build libraries of courses/classes/videos/etc. and give away a lot of 101 level knowledge for free, then charge you for more info. But that "more info" never really comes. 

Their entire business model is not built on being digital marketing gurus - it's selling their courses to new people in the industry. Hell, many of these (like dropshipping courses) end with the guy telling you to start your own courses, and around we go. (I guess in that vein, they are good at what they do). 

If you really want to learn more about digital marketing and make a career out of it, I'd start with the basic resources online, including content from the platforms themselves (Google, Facebook, etc.). 

For more content to read, I'd suggest: 

* HubSpot 
* Social Media Examiner 
* Social Media Explorer 
* Moz 
* Search Engine Journal 
* Buffer (Blog)
* Sprout Social (Blog)  

These are good entry-level resources to give you a baseline of digital advertising + other practices in this space. 

&#x200B;
I was in a similar position two years ago, no experience, but I really wanted to try out digital marketing. I did one and a half unpaid internships. They were pretty easy to find in my area. Then from there I sat down one day and applied/sent emails to every local marketing agency that I could find, even if they didn’t have job openings posted. A small one contacted me a month later and hired me. I learned so much there and made amazing connections that have helped propel me. I’d recommend trying something similar before going straight into freelance work by yourself. Learning on the job from people with more experience is just so much more valuable than a paid online course in my opinion. 
I’m in a similar situation right now. I’m currently going through Hubspots free certification. They have a lot of different aspects and trainings of digital marketing that they offer all for free
You'd be well served to work for someone and learn the trade before you can get expect clients to pay for the privilege of your work.
Lynda.com. Aim for getting a full time job ASAP. Then pay for better and better courses, from reputable providers like Udacity. 
I've been thinking about this myself. I've found a couple of post grad certificates in digital marketing that are offered by local colleges and universities in Toronto. I'm not sure whether I should pursue digital marketing or data analysis. I've read numerous articles state that digital marketing is actually a waste of time and doesn't work as well as people think it does. There are some jobs, but I wonder if this career path has a future.
I'd be cautious if I were you. Get an entry level job and learn the ropes for a year before diving in to this.

Are you prepared to cover an angry client's overspend when you screw up and go 3x over their budget? This happens with even experienced marketers. What happens when they start asking you slightly more than basic questions about what is happening or what else they can do and you stutter on the call and they realize you don't know wtf you're doing? 

The dream isn't dead but it isn't easy. You need big-fish clients that are going to see through an amateur and never give them a chance. You won't be able to do it with clients paying you $400 a month. At that point you might as well work at a company and get the perks that come with it as well.
If you can, spend a bit of money on paid advertising. Even just a couple of dollars per day, if you do it well, will get things moving for you. 

Good luck!


Go with your own ideas. Create title optimized title for your videos and may use just some keywords. Keep good thumbnails. Importantly, obey youtube's copyright and community guideline rules.
..
Best of luck...🤓
Aside from the basics of tags and titles, you need to think deeper. 

Create an incentive to share the video or tag friends. (Include a prompt like "Tag a friend to see how they'd solve this puzzle"

Do outreach to get traffic back to you. 

Get people talking about your channel

Share your videos with other people in the industry. 


You'll grow rapidly if you focus on these aspects.
Congratulations man. I'm having trouble finding a digital marketing internship, I can't imagine how hard it is to find a job.
Congratulations! Best of the luck!

&#x200B;

Keep learning. Never stop learning. Marketing is ever changing and there is no such a thing as staying at the same knowledge level. If you are not going ahead, you are losing ground.

&#x200B;

Try to add different skills to your stack as well, like if you a have a clear weekness in areas like content marketing, SEO, PPC and social, try to learn as much as possible. 

&#x200B;

Again, best of the luck and congratulations.
Well man, good luck. I just got recently hired too as an SEO analyst. My pay is $35,000 but I live in an area with low expenses. Also, my concern was more about just getting into the industry. That and I'm working with one of the best experts in the field. 45,000 in New Jersey might be a bit difficult to live on tho. I was interviewing with a company in New Jersey a few months back for a PPC position and I was in the final stage. If I had gotten hired, I would have had a $53,000 salary.

I would personally ask the hiring manager about the living expenses of New Jersey, then ask him what he thinks is acceptable for the low and high range of the job's salary taking those expenses into account. He could end up raising your salary as a result. You never know.

Also keep in mind that there are two reasons they hired you. Reason one is because they thought you were the best fit of course. But reason number two is because they can't find anyone with your talent in the state. 
Congratulations...Inspiring post. Thank you for sharing your experience with us.
Recent marketing grad here so sorry if this is a taboo question, but is 45k a common rate for a specialist position in NJ? That’s more or less my base rate going into coordinator positions out in WA. 
Congrats! It's really nice that you can choose your path between the two. I personally really like product marketing and wish that I had this kind of option.
Thanks for the post! Good to hear! Good luck! 
This kind of posts always brings hope for the budding digital marketers out there. 

Congrats on the new position. I'm sure that you'll be the best.
Congratulations man, best thing is just start something of your own while doing the job.a website ,Facebook page group or anything that use your digital expertise.it will gradually grow while you work for this company.and one day there will be  a point where you can do your own thing for living .good luck. 
Congs!!! Just focus on the course after Google ads  training take related course, you will be learning as you are working
FOLLOW INDUSTRY EXPERTS ON SOCIAL
Nice work and congrats! Learn as much as you can, ask to learn what others are working on. Super beneficial as you want to move up the ranks in marketing. 

Also, listen to marketing podcasts and read some articles to stay ahead of trends and new areas of digital marketing. 


In your case, the most efficient way would be creating a custom report.

Here are the parameters:

* Primary Dimension: Social Source & Action
* Metrics: visits, pages/visit, e-commerce conversion rate etc. You can choose more metrics if you like

&#x200B;

If  a user clicks on your link and they close their browser tab or windows while the page is still loading, the session will not be recorded by Google Analytics if it’s code has not been loaded.

&#x200B;

I'd also suggest not focusing on clicks as a KPI. Instead, look for conversions.

Finally, test it yourself to see if a redirect is chopping some of the UTM-parameters so all the traffic in Google Analytics is counted as Direct.

&#x200B;

Hope that helps,

Shashank
Google Analytics and Server Logs use very different visitor tracking methods. Google Analytics flushes out regular visitors, bots, spiders, etc. There are arguments for both sides being better or more accurate for lots of different reasons. Personally, I would argue that when analyzing an ad campaign it's best to use Google Analytics. 
Strange enough, I've found heat mapping tools that record visitor interaction (like HotJar) to be super accurate, as they're activated by movement (scrolling) and track how many seconds someone spends on a page.  Meaning, they ignore bot traffic and people who don't stick around long enough for the page to load, but include most all human interactions.
Make sure you know the actual meaning of your metrics. For example, the difference between an impression and link clicks.
Who is your supervisor? Do they set the budget? 

I was in this position before. It will help to start slow and show the decision-maker the value of your approach. 

Here's how I did it. 

Sat down and recommended the owner do 10 things in the long run but 2 things immediately. He reviewed my list and we chose 2 actions to take for now. 

I created a list of new marketing methods, tools, services, and we'd add 1 item every other week. 

It allowed the owner to see what I was doing. I walked him through the results like search ranking and Facebook ad conversion. Once he knew I wasn't wasting money, he'd greenlight the next marketing task.
Yes and yes. People seem to forget that google ads \[search\] are tailored to people who are lower in the sales funnel thus actively searching for the \[insert your product or service here\] in order to satisfy their need.

Facebook ads are more of a promotion thus you are creating the desire. On the down side, the cost will increase over time compared to google ads.

Also do note that traffic is not the same as leads.

You can send cheap traffic with google ads \[display\] but your conversion rates will be abysmal even though your CPC will be 0.01 \[if done right\].

&#x200B;

Hope it helps. 
Also, in some developing countries, Facebook has more reach than Google.
It would depend on how much you plan to spend on each channel. I find Facebook to be very much a pay-to-play platform.
Depends on the industry, the goals of the advertising, and the product. 

$20 hat? Facebook 
$20,000 industrial lift systems? Google & remarket with a visual on Facebook to website visitors. 
Yes, Facebook has much better-targeting options and an overall less cost per conversion on average. I would recommend using both those because you can hit people from two different areas search/social media and the more you get your ads out the more people will start to recognize and associate your ads to your business. Thus, increasing brand awareness.
Also, lower budget campaigns are always better on FB in my opinion because you can't do much on Google Ads with low budgets. Your best bang for your buck in that scenario is definitely Facebook Advertising. 
Yes I run both campaigns. Yes in some of projects FB ads have worked better than Google Ads. 

For one of my client I used to spend around ₹10,000 and was able to get 10-13 conversions. Due to competition the bidding has increased heavy which lead to high Top Page Bid. So it was simply not sustainable. CPA was around 800-1000. 

So I setup FB ads campaign with ₹5000 for testing phase. I was able to get good traffic and leads. Then I shifted my entire budget to FB and IG. Today with same amount I am able to get 100 leads or more. The quality of traffic of traffic and leads is high and closing rate has seen growth. 
Yes, but your marketing strategy should be different between the two platforms because the user behavior is completely different. 

Facebook users are in browsing mode, so marketing on Facebook needs to be more attention-grabbing to introduce or re-inforce your product/brand to potential customers. 

And in turn, people who are now familiar with your brand by seeing a Facebook ad will then navigate to Google to do more research, and that's where they'll encounter your Google ad, perhaps among other competitors. Google users are already in the market for this product or are already familiar with your brand and are shopping around, so these are higher-intent audiences than those on Facebook.

To your second question, either platform can result in higher traffic or leads - it all depends on your objective, targeting and allocated spend.
Your best bet is creating a portfolio so that you stand out when applying for jobs. 

Or coming up with social media strategies for companies that you are interested in and finding the correct email to send it to. Create a social media campaign for a company with a bad social media presence. 

You need to prove that you know what you're doing and that you can create results. 
I am sure there are many digital marketing (boutique) agencies out there looking for people.
Tons of companies are looking for cheap social media management - check out digital agencies, local shops, and other SMBs in your area or even freelancing/remote work
Portfolios are everything. Agencies often want people with developed skill-sets so they can pitch new services in their client packages, and in-house positions at large companies usually want a proven track record since a poor social media campaign can be very damaging to their image.

I'd suggest looking at local shops, restaurants, and small businesses that are severely lacking on their social media. A lot of small business accounts are run by the owners or by the youngest kid in the company, and would gladly take cheap social media help 1-2 days a week. Identify these businesses, research their local competitors and how they leverage social media, and show up in person and ask to talk about it (be prepared to leave a card). Score 1 or 2 clients, and utilize them to build a portfolio to help win an agency or in-house job down the road (or maybe you'll find you like freelancing).

Don't be discouraged- this is a very bloated field and entry level jobs are often soaked up by overqualified applicants. Just keep growing your skillset, portfolio, and network.
Depending on how large your agency is, make sure their manager is mentoring them, having regular check-ins with them, and giving feedback on their work. Also give them a "buddy" who isn't their manager/ideally outside of their direct department/team who they grab coffee with regularly. This allows the interns to have a more informal relationship with someone who can answer questions they might be too embarrassed to ask their manager. I'm an intern-turned full time employee at an agency, so feel free PM me if you have any questions! Happy to talk.
I urge you to pay your interns. If not hourly, a stipend. And if not a stipend, you should cover any/all expenses for commuting. Also if you don't pay them, you need to offer it for-credit or else it's illegal.
You can get pretty much anything with a valid credit card just do all your research before the free trial expires or get a refund within 30 days - if you need more than 30 days to get all your research done you're not doing it right.
Any free backlink analysis tool that you guys know of. A tool that atleast shows all the linking domains for free. 
SEO quake is also good tool.
Liked it !

&#x200B;

Thanks for sharing.
Thanks! in the right 
Thanks Brother 
Awesome 
Super useful post. Thank you a lot!
Useful list... thanks for sharing the post...
Thank you! 
Great list! There are a few I've never heard of on here, so def going to check them out. Thanks for sharing!
I think there are still many...!
Varies depending on the account. There's never a one size fits all. 

Could be sales, leads, registrations... All sorts of things. 
He requires that I jack him off every now and then. >!Because I am the Manager!<.

Jokes apart

1. Cost per lead/ Cost per impression
2. Engagement
3. Reach
4. Site visits (Event- Contact page)

Events differs based on what you are promoting. 
My manager didn’t give me any KPIs. we run a group of restaurants. i guess ours are store visits yet Facebook Likes seem to be all the rage where I am based. 
Sales should be the big one, but email optins, likes and shares are all popular too.

How could sales figure become part of marketing KPI? Easy if you're tracking sales conversions using Facebook Pixel. If you can show you're moving the sales needle with your campaigns you'll be your boss' best friend! :)
It's a shame that other jobs doesn't have an open culture as programming have.  


If you ask the same question in a programming subreddit, you would already have many mentors willing to teach you. Good luck searching for somebody!
Well, you have two options.

First, if you take an entry level position at an agency or company, culturing a natural relationship with an experienced digital marketer you respect is ideal (and that person respects you back as well). Just like any industry. 

Or, you can hire someone. I know many people that offer paid mentoring services. It's going to be pricey, but look for one that is in your target speciality (PPC, SEO, Social Media, Email, etc).
Where are you based u/darkhorse818? If you’re anywhere near Boston, I’m happy to offer any advice and mentorship I can
I’ve worked for 4 companies now doing paid search. Everything I learned was on the job experience and reading blogs. People don’t exactly want to share their secrets for success especially when it might fall under trade secrets.
Get a job at an agency that offers the specific sub-section of digital marketing you're interested in (SEO, PPC, CRO, etc.).  Then find the person in the company that's actually good at what they do (most people in agencies will be mediocre at best) and suck up as much knowledge as you can.
Look for digital marketing consultants in your town and ask if they need any admin help. 
If online coaching helps, I would be happy to help. 
What's most relevant in the future is being able to combine different relevant fields into one position, if you can major in one and minor in the other that's be great.
Computer science imo is a more important skill that college can teach you. The other stuff you're better off learning elsewhere. The marketing degree I got was largely useless except for signaling "hey, I have the ability to sit in class for 4 years and do what is expected of me." Which is a decent signal to an employer, but it held little weight in the job market. 
I think that skills matter more than universities in my opinion. There are a lot of fields like programming for example that usually only want you to know the language. But still, having a degree won't hurt you. The more you learn about how economy works, the better. Surprisingly, The History of the Economy made me change my perspective and see things in a new way. Actually I think that this applies in every field.

So long story short, you have to figure out how you want to profile yourself and then make your move. Do you want to be more of a marketer that knows about digital marketing too, or someone who knows a lot of stuff about programming and stuff and knows about marketing too.
Either could work. From my perspective those who can write code are in higher demand but those who can manage people are also employed widely. It’s more about personal preference. If you enjoy building relationships, frequent small talk, and interacting with people marketing management will be more relevant to what you do well. If you enjoy data and problem solving more than people, computer science is the better choice.
I graduated with a degree in Business Information Technology - half business, half computer science. I learned how to code, how to analyze and solve business problems, but most importantly how to combine my technical and business skills to solve problems and communicate issues clearly.

CS will give you much more technical knowledge, but depending on the program it can be way overkill for going into digital marketing. CS at my university was in the engineering school, so everyone also had to take things like basic electrical engineering which were hugely irrelevant for some. Marketing management is way closer to what you want to do later, but will probably leave you with fewer technical skills. That said you can learn basic web dev and design skills on your own. 
If you enjoy writing code and solving technical problems then study computer science. Marketing degrees are definitely not going to teach you very much that you can't learn on the job. Most marketers don't even have marketing degrees. 

But do get a degree. Even if it's not in marketing...
That's a great question, it made me pause for some time and look back at everything I've done in digital marketing.

I'd say that one of the most important things is to be helpful for your users and potential customers. Everything else just needs to be built around it. 

If you want to be helpful, you will build good content that answers people's questions; you will use keywords as this is the only way to speak the same language as your users do; and you will be there for your potential customers through different stages of their journey.
Great question indeed.

For me personally it would be CRO, conversion rate optimization.

&#x200B;

Could be marketing automation as well. I could learn HTML/CSS/Java much earlier too.
Me! Whatchu got?
I haven't run into that exact issue. I'd say that feels like a very low imp share to be successful. If your keyword set is really broad, I'd try tightening up keywords by using phrase or exact match or more specific longer-tail keywords. Or if you have funds, up the budget and see if you improve your conversion rates with increased imp share.

It's hard to know without more campaign specifics, and your goals, but it sounds like you might want to explore some optimizations.
Edit: you stated ecomm, I missed that originally

What type of conversions are you tracking (ecomm, leads, etc). Is the category super competitive? Have you checked auction insights to see if you are benchmarking lower than competitors? How long has the campaign been running? (Usually 2+ weeks for automated bid strategies to find their stride).

I'm guessing you are correct. It will likely get better with more budget as a general rule. There are also columns for 'search lost due to rank' and 'search lost due to budget'. Those can help confirm your suspicion before actually investing. 
Your impression share isnt the best unless you are in a market competing with ebay and amazon. 

are you still profitable at 10%
I not sure how you are doing that but you need to use the business manager for all you campaigns.  That is were all tools are.
Yeah, I do the same, unless u run ads on multiple fanpages andeach has multiple admins
Yes. Business Manager will be helpful. I rarely go to our business page directly
2. analytics -> funnels

3. We don't but PPC hero is a good place to start.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
you need Google Ads and Google Analytics - together they do what you want and so much more

do a course and learn it asap
Re: #1, what you're asking for is basically a CRM, ad integration, and e-comm oriented email marketing software all in one.

&#x200B;

Alex Becker's Market Hero might have all this functionality built into one, but normally these are totally separate softwares.  I can say Shopify as a platform can do all this, but you'd still be using separate plugins to execute each of these functionalities.
Tools for audience building should be installed and audience targets should be built out before running any ads at all. 
We start with the budget - if they have previous ad spend we stick with that budget unless they want to increase. My typical strategy is starting small, testing ads/creatives/copy/audiences, and scaling up the good ads to meet the budget as long as performance stays good. 
Totally depends on where you are starting from.
Show them your case studies. 
Get certified in Google Analytics and Adwords. My interviewer was impressed that I was certified in one of those. You can also work with a recruiter to help you get a job. I'm in the same boat as you, all my experience in marketing has been in social media and I'm trying to branch out to other areas of marketing.
Learn sales. 
As long as people opt in and have a way to opt out it should be legal.

Not sure if there are any softwares but there may be some automation tools.
Thank you, guys! This helps!
You can now run ads with WhatsApp as the CTA inside Facebook.  Other than that, they must opt-in before your client can contact them.
I think there are no analysis and statistical software that provides insights for Whatsapp. Whatsapp Marketing is great as it helps you reach many individuals at no cost. But you can't understand to whom it have been to and whom not. Like Hubspot and others software provide services etc.

I am using it with some clients in Spain with very good results, as a substitute for the typical chats. It is true, that here whatsapp is widely used as a form of communication
It’s not too late. I am in a hurry now, but will post later. 

Also don’t buy a course.
Not too late at all. It’s hard to give specific advice for which area to focus in right now but getting a general marketing exec position should be OK and will give you exposure to what it’s like to work in this industry and whether you want to pursue it further.

To get you started, you should look at perhaps getting a Google Analytics certification or Hubspot inbound marketing. Also check out the Moz Academy if you can. These are all free and will help you brush up on your general skills whilst also showing employers that you’re serious about the switch. Definitely do not buy a course though! You really don’t need to.

If you’re struggling to find work initially then you could speak to the company where you currently work to see if they have any open positions in the marketing department. I initially started out by asking to help our marketing team with just a few hours a week. Eventually I was able to increase this over time and after that I had enough experience to go into interviews with something to talk about. 

People switch to new industries all the time and I bet most of them would kill to be doing so at just 25 years old! That’s still really early and with tonnes of time to catch up. Don’t rush yourself, study the aforementioned resources as best you can and see where you can get experience. You’ll be able to get a job soon enough:)
I have a master's degree in finance. I went from working at banks to working at a tech company to now breaking into digital marketing.

&#x200B;

Run the other way, fast. Go back to the bank. You have it way better than you think.

&#x200B;

The competition is fierce, they have years and years ahead of you, and will gladly starve both of you to 'win' the account. Gaining clients is harder than you think, and they pay drastically less (like 95% less) than the numbers you see thrown around on this sub. 

&#x200B;

RUN THE OTHER WAY
Not too late at all, especially if you’re ok with more entry level positions, but are you ready for the likely salary drop?
I haven't studied marketing at all yet I am in the industry. Here's my story. 

I've got a degree in journalism, an industry that's an asshole to get into especially if you, such as myself, are an immigrant. By a mere chance I landed myself a job in what I thought was PR, but my responsibilities were mostly running social media - what can I say, the company was Chinese. As a matter of fact, it closed down within month and a half.

So, I've started a job hunt again. Whenever I was attempting to get a job in PR, my little bubble was starting to burst as some employers explained to me my previous experience belonged in digital marketing department rather than PR. So, this way I've began applying for Digital Marketing instead while still being a journalism grad with 1.5 months experience in 'PR'. 

Needless to say no one was willing to give me a job. On the other hand, I've been offered a paid 3 months internship. While I worked for a bare minimum, the amount of experience gained is insufferable and lead me to further progression later on. 

So, I didn't even plan on reprofiling into Digital Marketing nor had interest or sufficient knowledge to it other than social media maintenance experience and basic knowledge of SEO and wordpress. 

It is a very easy industry to get into, even if you haven't studied it. As long as you're a fast learner, you will most definitely succeed. 
Buy a course from someone who’s killing it. Join Facebook groups

Hi  I'm interested to find out more. My team and I run a weight loss supplement in the US. We spend about USD3-4K everyday. Thanks! 
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/analytics] [Best service for doing analytics for Instagram? Want to track engagement and reach specifically over years of data.](https://www.reddit.com/r/analytics/comments/b8mkmj/best_service_for_doing_analytics_for_instagram/)

- [/r/marketing] [Best service for doing analytics for Instagram? Want to track engagement and reach specifically over years of data.](https://www.reddit.com/r/marketing/comments/b8myoa/best_service_for_doing_analytics_for_instagram/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
I don't think there's anything that will let you look back 5 years,  but Iconosquare has good analytics for IG. 
I think the compensation is already happening in the form of sending us more update emails about the outage than I ever wanted. 
Most likely not since it'll be somewhere deep in the contract about uptime percentage and even with 2 days of delayed outage, they're still VERY high. 
I'm not connected to them, but Digital Marketer has some awesome training classes for beginner and intermediate level marketers.  I think their $99 per month DM Lab+ includes access to all their main courses (just Google "DM Lab+" as I don't want anyone here thinking I'm using an affiliate link ; )
Lynda.com has a bunch of courses that are awesome. You get a certificate at the end of each that you can reference.

Also, edX.org has some great courses. A lot of them you can go through for free as “audit.” Or choose to pay for the certificate.
hubspot has an entire academy that’s completely free and incredible. hootsuite also has free courses with certifications online that are very respected. 
So cool..I was a Graphic Designer too but shifted to Digital Marketing cause my keen interest was in Marketing using digital tools. So there are wide ways you can learn Digital Marketing but not limited to.!!!! The Best Courses & Certification are provided by : Google(Free), FB(Free), Twitter(Free), LinkedIn(Subscription Package)...You should start with Learning Fundamentals Concept of Marketing !!! Then going to Terms in BasicTerm in Digital Markets,SEO, Content Marketing, AdWords, Pages&Promotion !!! So I would suggest you to follow pathways provided by LinkedIn as it is much definitive way for a Marketing Course...And do read GaryVee's book :Crushing It...All The Best...Just Do it,!!! For more feel free to contact me in Msg
No matter whatever course you take whether it is Facebook, Instagram there is one thing that you need to know and practice, copywriting skills, without it, you will have very little success. Knowing how to create ads is one thing, know how to create ads and landing pages that convert is a whole different story. My suggestion is to get started with learning copywriting. When I first started SEO and created an affiliate site to review digital pianos, I was getting 35 to 50K visitors per month to my site but converting very few visitors to click to the merchant. I was at a turning point, Get more traffic or learn to convert the traffic I already had. I opted to learn to convert existing traffic and I am glad I did learn to write conversion copy. Talk to any experienced digital marketer and they will say the same.
Glassdoor is your friend here. 

And your salary should be as much as you can negotiate!
Pinterest has a huge female following, about 80% of its users are women. So if your in the fashion industry, it would be a great way to target and very specific market. 
Yes  Pinterest can help you to bring more audience as everyone know female use Pinterest more then male. So its also a opportunity for your niche because as you told that its related to fashion shop and dresses. As compare to other social media channel, you will get more on Pinterest.

So buddy keep your work up. All the best.
You can post links on Pinterest which is a big advantage over Instagram. I find traffic time on site is much higher too. I only started using it recently but seems good so far.
For the female demographic and B2C companies, it seems to work quite well. It's a bit time consuming, but can be good if you stick with it and have a strategy in place. Additionally, the advertising is quite cheap still to get your pins seen.
Pinterest is good for Fashion & Art niche! 
Do this things :

1.Find the No.of Users using Pinterest for fashion in your Area !!!

2. Search for Google Trends and keywords !!!

3. Use GaryVee rule of 79/21 !!! Pinterest to be a micro part of Instagram

4. And I would suggest you to use Pinterest ... It will help you somehow or either, just it help you to be better and understand this platform too.. Just see to it, that strategy is well enough you to get start. 

5. Go and Talk to your parents, peer groups, friends who are using Pinterest and why do they do it so..How often ?....Cross Question them and you will know much of the insights

All The Best 
I think brand style and voice, and being consistent are critical, but I don’t know that illustration vs photo is generally more or less effective. Illustrations and animations are certainly popular these days for sure. 

I’m so sick of seeing everyone reuse the same stock photos for similar pieces, and any time you can do your own pictures, even if not as professional as “real” stock, your photos will always represent your brand best. 

I would not generally recommend mixing visual styles and metaphors though. Get your brand style figured out and run with it. 
I like the concept, but digital marketers don’t always like sharing their secrets.

If you figure out a hot new angle or niche or method for brining in sales people are obviously reluctant to share that information, because soon everyone will be doing it and there goes your competitive edge.

It’s not like the developer community where open source and sharing is the motto. It’s much the reverse unfortunately.

The only time people share their secrets is when they get something out of it, which usually means they want to sell you something.

If it’s just normal stuff like “how do I install a tracking pixel” or “how do I make a landing page” etc then it could work I guess, but that information is also easily available on Google.

Sorry I don’t mean to burst your bubble, but I’ve seen a few of these ideas come and go without working out as expected.
Just a quick preface, I'm relatively new to working professionally as a digital marketer. I work full-time for an organization helping with the digital marketing of our clients and our own company. 

>1)Do you often have questions related to your work / profession that can be answered by other people in your field? 

Most definitely

>2)How do you usually resolve these questions? Where do you go to find that information? (eg: personal contacts, whatsapp groups, organizations, or other online / offline methods) 

Depends. If I'm looking for a quick tip for some thing I'm somewhat familiar with I'll do a few Google searches until I find something I feel was helpful. If it's a more advanced topic or if I couldn't find the answer to what I was looking for originally ill check Udemy and then maybe Lynda.

>3) Imagine being part of a community of other people in the same profession as you. What do you think about this idea? How helpful would this be for your career? What would you use this community for?

Im not necessarily active on online communities as I prefer to study online courses or books, but this is something I'm looking to change. I definitely see the value in this kind of interaction but most of the time I'll like an answer now and will use this community to answer questions I can't find answers to else where or just to learn how others approach certain aspects of digital marketing.  Its hard to tell how helpful this will be to my career but I can for sure see it being helpful to some degree.

>4) Are you already part of such communities?  (eg: online / offline, whatsapp, organizations, colleagues, their personal networks etc) Could you please name them? 

In regards to Digital marketing I'm part of a few communities from some Udemy courses I purchased but I rarely check them. I do however check my web Development communities as I have an interest in the subject and I also attend wordcamp every year. I also check stack overflow of course.


>5) Please describe your experiences with these communities. 

I love wordcamp and the WordPress community as a whole. I find everyone to be quite helpful and willing to answer questions and share their expertise. As I don't follow the digital marketing communities there isn't much I can say about them. Stack overflow is a great source of information and I can usually find what I'm looking for within a few searches
Copywriting.
Attention to detail. I swear this the cause of like 90% of the flameouts I’ve seen. If you don’t have this skill you need to learn from those who do. Paying attention to IOs and budget pacing is so so important. Also a good tip someone once gave me was to build my own checklists and incorporate them into my workflow — super useful when building SEM campaigns for example. 
Flexibility and easylearning are also matters. 

Hard skills are seo, sem, analytics, content marketing,  understand design-based thinking,  planning, maybe  knowing how to create a quick intro video...

And a big part of this is being persuasive.

Resources  to learn are udemy and different blogs (just google)
I work for a media company that publishes numerous websites. We have agency relationships but they’re buyers of our inventory not true partners like you’re saying. We have various teams tasked with managing our technology stack and yield management is a huge part of what they do. They analyze all the sell side ad tech and make decisions but there aren’t really intermediaries it’s a direct relationship between us and the ad tech vendors. 
My company - NitroPay.com - is an example of the ad revenue optimization and ad tech portion. We work with SSPs and exchanges to deliver ads programmatically through header bidding. We have other tech that helps with reporting and ad quality. We do have some direct relationships with media agencies for direct ad buys - this is mostly to guarantee placements or create more custom solutions than a standard banner. 

Many ad ops outsource shops do similar things, but each has its own flavor and implementation. Publishers sometimes will try out different solutions, but often they will only move if something is not going as well as they’d hoped. 

Hope that helps. 
This one is easy. Here’s something I did about a year ago. 

I unfollowed all the useless shit. I unfollowed the meme pages, sports, celebrity’s, trash news, etc. I kept only my close friends, family, co-workers. Most importantly, I followed successful entrepreneurs, motivational speakers, brands I want to gain inspiration from, financial advice, etc. 

Social media often gets a bad rep. But it’s not social media, it’s the people and the things you follow. Your phone (and subsequently, social media) counts as one of the five people your spend the most time with in your life. This means you’re greatly impacted by the things you do on your phone. 

Create your social media environment into something constructive. Since I did this, I actually spend far less time on social media. I’m not always in the mood to scroll through my timeline anymore. But that’s a good thing. 

Time to detox your following. Hope this helps. 
Not necessarily, but it helps to keep up on trends, platform updates, etc.
I am a digital marketing manager and it depends on which aspect of digital marketing you want to work in. If you want to paid media then yes, need to understand how social works and purchased. Or if you want to go into analytics, you may need to know how the data works for social media. Or you can go into ad ops (just implementing campaigns) or go into strategy. Don’t need to know a whole bunch but just how it is used for the overall strategy of the brand. But still nice to know. 
Not all jobs in digial marketing will require you to be involved in much social media. However it is important for a few reasons:

-When you build buyer personas, it's easy to connect and target them on social media strategically.
-Social listening for competitors or what industry people are saying
-Paid social, getting content, resources, products, and services in front of people and building brand awareness.

Posting and building social accounts is a pain and something I dislike, but I do the above often and is beneficial.

But you can get more specialized if you'd rather like SEO/SEM, email marketing, marketing automation, Google AdWords, Content Marketing, analytics, or you can do a mix of all. Really depends what you like and are looking to focus on. 
I've worked in social media for about 10 years now, and there's a couple of things to remember here:

1: you don't *have* to do anything. You should be using the channels that are most appropriate/most profitable for your business. On social in particular, people think they have to be everywhere,  and keep pumping out content all the time. You could just as easily put one ad on Facebook and keep it running for 3 months, and do nothing else. If it works, it works. 

2: social for business is not like social for personal use. Your audience may behave in ways that are completely contrary to the way you behave on social. Use numbers and analytics to see what works. If it is for a business, then social media should always have a clear tie to your business - whether thats a product, a service, facilities, people... social should be messaging that you have a clear reason for putting out, and thatnprovides specific value for the customer. You don't even need to follow any other sources if you don't want to, as long as what you are doing makes sense and has a clear objective. 

3: a coupke of people have already said this, but if you want to be on it personally, use it as a tool for learning. Follow experts in the field of digital (go check out some marketing sites, see who writes fir them, then see who those writers follow). There are still useful, interesting groups of people that you can learn from. You don't have to be putting stuff out yourself if you don't want to though.
Hell no. I've been an affiliate marketer that specializes in email marketing for over 11 years and I've won awards in the industry and I'm a 7 figure earner and my Instagram account has maybe two hundred people. While social media can be an effective tool nothing beats knowing you make x amount of dollars spending x amount of dollars and that just won't happen with posting on social media. Hit me up if you want to learn more but the basics are this dot-dot-dot I collect large email address list through digital marketing I offset my ad cost wall collecting those people at the same time and I monetize it further through email marketing. Most times I post on here I got some haters but the truth is the whole bunch of us that make really good livings doing digital marketing... And we are not influencers and we have been doing this for a long time.
You have to have an incredible understanding of social media and it’s intricacies, as well as trends and sudden changes of tech and direction, because social media is what drives digital marketing trends. 

You need to be aware of how social is doing, what’s working and engaging, new tech, otherwise your marketing will be dated. 

Use social media with the above in mind, see every post in a sense of marketing and business and how it can impact your marketing campaigns. It makes it less of a drag. :) 
I would like to suggest you Integrate push Notifications in your website so that you can re-target your users who are coming to your website by sending relevant push notifications in regular intervals. If you send informative updates and news to your users it makes them to keep updated with your updates and you also get more valuable customers. Push notifications will reduce most of your marketing budget. You will get it with less price and more benefits. I hope this will help you.
Google Ads: get certified, it’s free and you’ll learn just about everything you need to know. Also make sure you install Google’s tracking features.

Facebook Ads: make sure there’s a Facebook Pixel installed on the site to retarget visitors. Making sure you’re targeting and retargeting correctly is crucial. I believe Facebook Blueprint is the name of their free courses (gotta pay for the certification though) 

My agencies got a few free guides I can PM you if you’re interested, but as far as general advice just be analytical. Test different copy and creative combos, see what converts best.  Same with the platforms, just see what’s working well and allocate budget accordingly. 
 

Web design is one of the most competitive verticals for search and social IMHO. I’ve been seeing the best results with bleeding edge tactics like organic marketing on emerging platforms. More traditional google ppc and SEO has proven somewhat productive but quite expensive cost per customer acquisition in my experience. I’m recommending a strategy along the lines of “do the basics well and expect to get some customers through traditional search marketing but be sure to also invest in newer channels”.
Excellent copywriters and creative marketers can crush it on Facebook and IG (managing ad campaigns). Great copy can be the difference between profitable ads and poor ones, provided everything else is executed well (targeting, video/image creative, other technical settings).

Consider it! Especially if you’ve got a great interest/knack for data driven decision making.
There is a shortage of data scientists and it is very well paid so certainly have a look into that. If you can master Power BI, for example, that’s a niche which will keep you in work and well paid.
Seems like all the money is in being a "guru" and selling courses. 
Analytics in general is massively in demand. It’s so hard to find people and most companies (not just agencies) need analysts. Social media analytics is a good niche and might use more of your writing/editing skills. 
I agree with all  who gave valuable suggestions regarding the same but I personally believe find the piece that you really love and you want to do for the whole life. I Personally belive you have money in every domain every field, every industry.

Just check for yourself which industry you think there are no GURU's. Which doesn't make money.

Find the piece you love you will be there eventually...

All the best..
I bet Alexa is a good tool to get started. 
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/webmarketing] [How can I find the most profitable keywords in all topics and industries?](https://www.reddit.com/r/webmarketing/comments/b7ga9x/how_can_i_find_the_most_profitable_keywords_in/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
Ibisworld
Profitable is really hard to get at. You'd need to know how much different businesses are making off of each term. 

It would be easier to figure out how expensive they are. 

Also, do you mean on a per click basis, or in total (ie words with a high combination of traffic and cost)?
Hello 

You can use LSI keyword or Google Keyword Planner . I prefer google keyword planner which provide us the descriptive information about the keyword .
You aren't going to find a magic bullet solution to find profitability. Tools like Keyword Planner will only be able to show you volumes and relative competitiveness with some CPC metrics. Profitability on paid keywords comes down to a lot of variables, including conversion rate on your site and AOV. One trick I do use though is I will use PPC spy tools like SpyFu to find keywords that top competitors are bidding on and look at how long they have been bidding on them. If its a competitor that I find to be active in their digital marketing efforts, I make the assumption that if they are bidding on a keyword for a long time, then they find success with it.
Are you marketing single houses or developments? What country/area? What price point are the properties/who's your target audience?

Beware all the replies your gonna get from people trying to sell there services to you!


I have some real estate clients, and this is my method:

1.   Pay for Page Growth. I always start with realtors by paying for likes on their Facebook page. This is a worthy initial investment because it sort of marries the intention-based marketing of Google and the granularity of FB. Having an initial following will allow you to create Lookalikes of people who have already demonstrated an active interest in buying/selling.

2.   Launch $5/Day Reach Campaigns Year Around. People find realtors either by word of mouth or through convenience bias (the most recent one they remember). It's easy to launch a Reach campaign aimed at $5 per day in a specific geolocation (as increase age from 30-65) 

This method is called "Farming" and it's been around for a long while.  Target a zip code, and stay in front of that audience, you will start to build authority, trust, and familiarity.  It's the KNOW, LIKE, and TRUST factor! 

--->>>And Please!!! Please, Please!!! STOP running ads like 99.9% of realtors run.  And these are ads that blast pictures of themselves everywhere. News Flash: NOBODY WANTS A REALTOR! And nobody cares about your face.  These ads ONLY serve the narcissistic needs of the realtor. Nobody wakes up one day and says, "Let's pack all of our shit into boxes and move."

3.   Ad Copy.... Your ad copy should SPEAK TO THE CLIENT! I see realtors get this wrong all the time.  I see ads copy like " I'll sell your home in 30 days!" Once again this is usually with a picture of the realtor 😟 Use copy that speaks to the client, what their point of view is.  One of my favorite copy techniques for FB is " Your neighbor's house sold in under 48 hours ABOVE market value!

4.    Build Email List. Launch a traffic campaign to a landing page and offer a free home valuation (or something like this) if they sign up for a newsletter. Email is great because it decreases your reliance on paid media, but it is also a valuable data source for targeting. Also stay in contact with past clients! Push your referral program, plus you never know when someone will be ready to move...

Let me know if you have any questions.
Best of luck!
It’s hard to get in market cold prospects, but I could see you having success staying top of mind with people you’ve done business with in the past and their friends. Hope that helps.
Haven't seen this mentioned yet, install a Facebook Pixel on your site to target effectively. It's crucial. 
If you have a lower budget my advice is to start with Google Search Ads as you're likely to find prospects that are further down the sales funnel than you will with Facebook. In other words, with Google you can laser target your ad towards people looking for what you have to offer right now, versus on Facebook your ad will be seen by a lot of people who aren't necessarily looking for what you have to offer right now. I hope that makes sense! :)
Look into Interest & Instagram for that. I believe instagram has a lot of compilation accounts that could feature you for less than a hundred dollars and as far as pinterest goes  I am not really sure but it's definitely the right platform.
 Search engineer... That's a new one. I like it.

I'd say look to social as well. People aren't necessarily searching for your gallery or the artists involved but there's a ton of opportunity for those that haven't yet discovered the artists but end up loving their work.
Does the gallery have a social presence yet? If not, I'll start with that first to bring in some organic traffic. Facebook, Instagram and maybe Pinterest. You can work you way into paid search and social. Content marketing is something I would focus on.
Well, start with blog to bring some organic traffic from Google.
Continuous SEO , Social Media Marketing ( facebook , instagram ). You can use paid promotion option on social media . It is affordable and best to gain more followers .
Not a fan, switched off of the paid version and switching off of the free version soon full too but for retweets there should be an option under preferences that says "Use Twitter Web retweets" that would solve your one problem at least.
I think the cheapest way to get the best results would be to have a website with the basic info and to focus on GMB. Post frequently (2-4) times on GMB and have a system on place where clients who used your services get an email that ask for reviews. Just that will put them ahead of 95% of the rest of the business.
It depends entirely on the individual business. 
Depends on where their customers hang out online, how customers would interact with an updated business's online presence, and what business problem the business wants solved. 

Sometimes businesses do ok with a crappy web presence because some other factor drives customers to the business. 

However - if the business does retail and they don't have an omnichannel strategy, that would be something to consider. Again, it depends on the situation.

Bottom line though, if you're seeking this kind of work, repeat business and word of mouth are huge for you, so you'll want to make darn sure you're getting the best ROAS possible.
$1000 only?

Google, FB or Yelp most likely depending on the audience and business. 
I would advise you to create quality content in your niche and promote it on social channels to get more exposure. Try posting guest posts to other quality websites as well. This is not much difficult you would be required to provide them with quality content of about 700 to 1k words and a bit charge like 50 to 100 dollars but it would provide you with good traffic and quality backlinks.
Continuous promotion is one very important if you are looking for more traffic for the business . Connect your business with social media by creating a business page . ( facebook , instagram ) . You can also use paid promotion option on Oscial Media . It is affordable and best way to get traffic . 

ALL THE BEST .
I’d focus on building quality citations and do some email/sms follow up with customers to drive reviews and referrals. Since your constraint doesn’t allow for building a good website I’d do a simple authentic site with wix or another cheap/free builder. Anything left over budget wise I’d use to push special offers and discounts with ppc on google Facebook or yelp (restaurants only for yelp).
You need to fit your marketing strategy to your target audience and the places they hang out with. If you're a doner shop you hit up Facebook with local ads etc.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
You can't really have the phrase "the best marketing strategies" and "$1000" in the same sentence lol. For $1000 I would set up a website the first month and follow up with content marketing the following months for social media exposure and allocate some of that money to boost the content -  all outsourced.
[deleted]
Depends on the type of business
[removed]
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram. But you need to develop different strategies for them. Don't approach as just social media platform. You will have different audiences on all 3 of them.
whichever your desired audience is on.  start doing your research.
Facebook and Instagram are still on top as the best way to garner name recognition and build an audience. Just make sure you're a frequent visitor to the Insights tab to see when your audience is online and what type of content has been working the best! Depending on your business, Pinterest can be very helpful too!
For a fashion/clothing business, I would definitely recommend Instagram and Pinterest. Since your product is visual, you need to take advantage of the platforms that focus on visual aesthetics! It would be smart to create a FB and Twitter eventually to cover all your bases, but I would strongly recommend starting with Instagram and Pinterest to grow a small biz.
I would have used Facebook and Instagram....Building two different strategies for each one of them.With Instagram rolling out its shopping feature in the app itself it would be much more desirable to work much on it. Tumblr or PinInterest, surely depends on what people mostly use this platform (Like what % or no.s of them use it).If FB have more users in the area and particular age group you want to market then FB will be No.1 Priority (Just Taking FB as an Example for building Priority)...but whatever social media you use...The Strategy you apply see to it that, it needs to be applied at Right Time, Right Area, Right Place and Right Group
Instagram is becoming popular for promoting services as you can see many ads running on Instagram about all types of businesses.
FACEBOOK AND INSTAGRAM

Create a business page on instagram and facebook . You can use paid promotion option on social media to gain more traffic . It is completely affordable and best to boom our business .

ALL THE BEST
If it's a physical store, definitely Google My Business
What do you sell? 
So you want good quality leads that you don’t have to pay for. Won’t be a long line for that, nope should be plenty of those available...
Create buyer personas. Who would buy your product or services, what pain points do you solve, what are their jobs titles, what business sizes does your product/services work best, etc. When you piece together all these questions, it will help you figure out where these people hangout. 

Generating leads is not going to happen overnight. If you need leads fast, paid is the best way to get in front of people. If you can take your time, content marketing, content promotion, and social media can get in front of them overtime.

However, it all depends on what your selling too. But if anything, build buyer personas to help you. 
This post alarms me. Is this a joke?
I hope you have a lot of patience:) I worked on the agency side with numerous luxury brands and they were very slow to adapt to new technology, strategy, etc. It was very much an old school mentality. 

Try to define kpi’s for your agency campaigns. Since many of the brands we worked with did not have direct ecommerce but would instead go through distributors we often had “branding” campaigns which were easy to execute, but then the results were left up for interpretation by the client and if sales didn’t improve 2 months down the road we were blamed. 

To add to that point, use the damn data we collect for you in the campaigns you pay us for. I can’t tell you how many thousands of emails sat in the database unused after we would run campaigns. 

That’s all that comes to mind now, best of luck!
Dont list it as a gap... you WERE working. List each company or website name. List the results on that just like a regular job.
Which city are you in? 
Agree with /u/j03c0nn01, fill in the gap with a position of doing your own thing and talk about it as a time for you to discover whether you want to go out on your own or not, and then you can conclude with finding that you missed working with a larger team, etc. and so are returning.

Usually best practice not to tell employers about personal decisions that affect your professional experience unless it's for the positive - it's not their business to know about.
I love this conversation. I’m a certified social media manager and I’m actively pursuing SEO training through OMG machines. I’m interested in your journey and interviewing you. If that’s ok with you, let’s connect
Lived in Melbourne for a while.... doing PPC for Telstra. Maybe see if they are hiring for their offices in CBD. Otherwise, getting a job is about going out and meeting people, networking and finding out about jobs that way. Recruiters are usually the last place I have gone to get a job.
First, you should have 6-12 keywords not just 1, so think of variations or use the keyword planner to help you out.

Second, is it important that your software is in that location? If it's a software cannot not be used anywhere within a radius? Is the latter, mentioning the location is probably unnecessary.
You can use radius targeting in the location settings. Then use broad match modifier +school +management +software for your keyword to show for both 🙂
Running email marketing and marketing automation (MA) is a skill, tech & tools come and go. Knowing how to target people, do it right and run a/b tests is a skill like anything in marketing.
There are tons of proven templates, so I wouldn't say it's a "skill" you need to practice.  But you will have to run some tests to find the ones that work best for your store / business / product / offer / etc.
You are probably reaching an offline audience or there's no out of the box targeting for your potential customers. 

In these situations I would go heavily manual then using  a lookalike audience out of 1-2k emails of subscribers.

Best!
May be you are not targeting the right way otherwise Facebook ads are incredibly powerful. I would suggest you to try interest based targeting.
Are you trying to run ads to just the Newsfeed, or letting FB auto-select the placements?

&#x200B;

Just had a (semi) similar issue, and a well known expert suggested we let FB auto-select the placements.  I was hesitant given we want newsfeed traffic, but it ended up working.  They're smart enough to know where your ads belong based on the creative.
Facebook estimates are just that... what is the max people they could reach if everyone logins to Facebook that day. This rarely happens. If you don't have targeting that is limiting you then it's the fact your market isn't on Facebook everyday I would say.

Are you running Facebook because you have maxed out on Google and Bing? If not, I would look at Google and Bing first because you can get traction faster then on Facebook for SaaS product.
Are you using very broad US targeting? This works sometimes for B2C and eComm but depending on the software that could be wasting a ton of time/effort. Facebook tries to show relevant ads to people, so if your ads don't seem very relevant, they won't be shown or clicked on. 

Are you getting any other errors from Facebook about the amount of text in your ads? And are you letting them run long enough that the learning phase completes? Consider keeping placements ONLY in Newsfeed everything else is mostly a waste

Is your Facebook Pixel set up? You can try to drive targeted traffic with interest-based targeting and move onto more targeted audiences once your Pixel is fed well.

Is your software B2B or B2C? Or both?
It's possible in MailChimp, you just have to make a new list/newsletter
You’ll have to make sure they opt into your different newsletters! Or when the sign up and confirm they have to select the newsletter they want to join. 
Can you set up another list to send out the 3-4 once off emails? That way subscribers will be able to unsubscribe from the second list.

You can use a tool like Zapier to subscribe a user from your main list automatically to a new list. 
It’s possible to have subscription preferences at different “email groups” (e g newsletters, sale emails) in Eloqua. That way if they unsubscribe from newsletters, they can still receive sale emails for examples. You just segment at subscription preferences every time you send a campaign. Hope this helps. 
Do you have an outline for client calls? You could have an outline, copy it for each call, talk the clients through it, and fill it out when you're on the call. Weekly updates should be as short and sweet as possible, so performance data may be all they need. 

&#x200B;

A basic call outline would be like: 

1. Major Updates/Events
2. Results for everything - Google, FB, Bing, page/test results
3. Issues with anything 
4. Upcoming plans if they differ from usual
5. Ask for questions/concerns

That would cover most of everything and should allow you to confidently walk through and complete a quick process with them each week. 
Check out the book ‘Traction’ and use the “L10 Meeting Agenda.”

There is an easy to find youtube explainer and a template on the Traction site. 

It sounds cheesy, but the agenda really works to drive alignment and get people working well together. 
Build better rapport, the best calls are the ones you talk about things outside of business for majority of the time then address the business on the end. Put the client at ease and don't make this type of call a chore. Following up on their life events means you're caring about them in other ways than just services. You are the professional and they're looking to you for your advice. Give them options but make it clear what you recommend the best next steps are. 
Don’t forget that client calls only have to be as long as they need to be. In my situation I’m the client, and i have a 30 minute call with the agency once a week. However, one week it’ll just be my account directors (quick chat on performance but mostly how the account is running, what we’ve spent, outstanding actions from each side) and the alternate week it includes the full agency team (in this case the PPC team) and they run through performance, upcoming actions, learnings and testing they’re doing. Sometimes it’s 20 minutes sometimes it’s 45. But the rule is we discuss what we need to then go. We obviously chat breeze to begin with to “build rapport” but there’s not pressure from either side. 

Also, once a month I have a 90 minute call where we deep dive into ongoing projects, testing, deliverables etc but they also talk me through industry and google updates which is super useful for me. Could be something to add into your agenda. 

Lastly, don’t be afraid to ask how they find the calls. I ask my agencies all the time if it’s a valuable use of our time and if it’s not we switch it up. It’s actually how we got to the alternate week/team structured calls. 

Hope this helps
As the comments before, 

Have a plan, make small talk and be yourself. I’ve made a lot of great client relationships being myself - cracking jokes and talking about life before hitting the numbers. Those small moments build trust and makes mistakes much easier to admit. 

When talking about performance, go over the numbers, what they mean - compare to industry averages, What’s working/ What’s not , what optimizations you’ve made and recommendations moving forward. 

Be courteous of everyone’s time, give yourself enough time to get through everything and have a Q&A at the end or throughout. Whatever works best.

I would start by making it 30 seconds
For LinkedIn when you say main page do you mean a company page or someone's feed? 

For LinkedIn post native. External links dont do as well in the algorithm. Add subtitles too as not everyone will want to be use sound if they are at work. 
Shorter the better, they can always convert for longer vids. Without understanding the nature of the video, target audience, role etc all of those platforms seem fine. 
For LinkedIn and Facebook, if you do ads, I'd cut the video down and A/B test length versions. 30-45 seconds seem to work best, but pending the content I've had longer perform better before. But in the ads, you can link to your website or a landing page with a form and a longer video. 

For non-ads, use the native upload feature in those platforms instead of linking. Encourage comments, because the social algorithms will keep this in front of more people. 

The video is too long to use as an ad, and without knowing the content I suspect is unlikely to engage as a first contact via ads or promoted content. It needs to be stage 2 or 3 in the funnel, with a much shorter version or other more direct ad unit which will lead to either the full video or a page explaining why the full video should be watched.

I guess from you posting you don’t believe the video will have enough traction to drive the actual views, don’t be afraid of your intuition or framing how to channel people to want to consume the video to your client.
Blogs are great for search engine based content, vlogs are better for user based content. You specialize in SEO, eCommerce is a great niche - does your brand rank for relevant niche keywords already (like "SEO for ecommerce")? eComm is a really popular niche, so even Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn, and YouTube could be useful. Share your content! Social links and traffic to the site, plus brand awareness.

&#x200B;

Are you already tracking your traffic and audience? Google Analytics, Facebook Pixel, HubSpot, etc. 

&#x200B;

You can also try to build your personal, professional, or local network. 

&#x200B;

Is your website conversion based? Directly asking for emails (or offering newsletter), clear places to set up a call with you, clear descriptions of your services, etc. Have you tested landing pages?

&#x200B;

Edit: noticed organic is the focus, ditched some paid recommendations.
To say; "SEO or Google is the way for your clients to find you." is the more accurate explanation than to say  "to find my clients on Google with SEO". It seems both are the same but indeed not. 

&#x200B;

Actually, the main difference between social media marketing and all kind of marketing on Google(SEO, AdWords)  is this. 

&#x200B;

If you want to find your niche ( clients)  I think you should create a community and I know it is not very easy for brands. It takes time but the better way for long-term marketing is to create a community on social media on your niche.

&#x200B;

The best part of social media is, platforms like Facebook, Twitter, and the others have more details and very large info about the users. This enables you to find more targeted audiences and 

If you compare with Google, definitely social media gives you more useful insight into the potential clients. 

There are lots of tools on Facebook to find your clients and even Facebook ads are very handy. And also Twitter, some Twitter management tools gives you very specific info about the users. I think this is the right ways to find your clients. 

&#x200B;
Most of these online course are a waste of money and time.
show your value. Find a local organization that could use your help and show them how you can be of help.
I'm a digital marketing manager for an African based telecommunications app. Our main office is in London though so I can't help you get hired unless you're here. But if you have any social media information or a website / portfolio online, I'd be happy to share it around. 
Why would you move for the same amount of money? Managerial always pays better than grunt work. Tell them to up their bid or GTFO.
I don't have anything other than anecdotal evidence, but analyst positions seem really hot right now. I think there's a future on that path, especially as AI gets better at running PPC for us! 

Just my two cents, but it never hurts to interview and negotiate to make it worth your effort to move to a different role. ($$$)
I work in big tech and Analytics is huge (a lot of money being made in that space) and will only get bigger. PPC won’t die out, but it’s going to keep getting harder to get the results you want. 
[deleted]
I never change jobs unless there’s more money in it for me. If you’re really really excited about analytics, maybe go for it, but it could end up being quite similar to what you’re doing now.
You don't need Digital Sales course to become Google Ads Certified. Not a bad idea to have that certification though

Hope that helps.

Shashank
I use google sheets to track a lot of my activity. Example you can have a sheet with the ad and then copy it over to a new cell every time you make a change to the ad copy label it as a new version (3.1 3.2 etc) - this is also useful because you can run a/b tests this way so you know which ad has been performing best
There are several tools that you can use. Can't say which one is the best. Depends on what you like.

&#x200B;

However, here are a few to consider:

&#x200B;

1. The good ole' Google Sheets: Project Management couldn't get simpler than this
2. Project Management tools: MS Project, Trello, Monday. Try the ones that offer free option and see which one you like.

While you can always use the channel specific platform to analyze data, it is best to have them all in once place using a project management tool. Alternatively, you can look at BI tools such as Tableau to have all data in one place.

&#x200B;

Hope that helps

Shashank
We use Airtable for bigger campaign execution management. For minor changes, I still have an old school notebook! 

Things like adding keywords to already established ad groups, small copy changes are jotted in my notebook as I go. I know, old school, but it works for me. 
Hubspot, Tasks, and Excel. 
While you can use primary research tools and various other modern day analytical tools to track activities - let's face it, tracking offline marketing activities is much tougher. Example of offline marketing activities - Hoardings, Newspaper ads, Magazine ads, Posters, Direct Mailers, participation in trade fairs, exhibitions, etc. Unlike Online marketing where the data is readily available for analysis, in offline the biggest challenge is to find ways to gauge the campaign's effectiveness. 
Connect your site with Google analytics and use google docs. 
Focus on results and deliverables as much, if not more than what your responsibilities were. 
I found that I had more requests for in-person interviews when I specifically asked for ways they'd like to improve, and responded with personal work experiences/results that matched those situations. 

"Oh, so you have x problem? When I worked for xyz, I did this to fix x problem for them." Showing interest in their company and their issues is a strong signal that you've done your research, are engaged in the field, and are worth investing time and effort into pursuing. 

I was also very forward about where my experience lacked, and how I'd like to grow to fill those gaps while in that role. I think managers appreciated the transparency and realistically, a lot of the times they'll backtrack and say "oh there actually is very little of xyz responsibility, we just threw that on there to draw more people in". 

I also tend to go into a phone interview with 3 questions (not including pay/benefits queries), again for the purpose of showing that I've done my research and am invested in their business. 
Talk about some special projects you worked on
I struggled with phone interviews when I was first starting off in my career. I would tend to talk way too much since I didn't have the visual cue of knowing whether the interviewer was engaged. Scripting out answers to the standard questions (tell me about yourself? what are your strengths/weaknesses?, etc.), recording myself, and listening to those recordings to improve my pace and confidence.

In addition, as others mentioned, focus on results and deliverables. For example, don't only say that what you did, but mention what your work accomplished:

 \* Worked hand in hand with ad agency to create and execute native, display, streaming audio, video, search and paid social strategy. 

 \* Increased ROI by 25% through optimizing a multi-million dollar digital advertising spend. 
Faith on your self.

Be confident.

No Nervousness.

Then start describing your experience. Start from the very first point.point to point describe.then your recent achievement.

&#x200B;
Why you are important, not what you did.
What are you considering a conversion? Only a store visit? For geofencing I consider a call or any sort of click on the landing page (eg directions) to be a conversion. Most of the big companies track all those actions. 
What program are you using for geo-fencing?
How about you start with an analysis, a good way to prepare a marketing plan is to know where the brand is in terms of marketing or social presence. A competitors analysis can also help, this way you can see what your competitors are doing and try to come with a plan.

Based on the analysis you can work with the marketing department and use their plan to prepare a digital plan.
The biggest issue I see here is there's not strategy with a 'Why?' So what if you get 150 new likes on your Facebook page, what does that actually do to achieve short/long term goals?
Sounds like a poorly thought through task assignment. Sucks that this is happening when you’re new to the industry. Not the first time I’ve heard of companies taking on interns to do work with no idea of what’s realistically achievable in terms of targets. And they are supposed to be training you to so this, not delegating it to you.

If you can suck it up and use it as a learning experience, and realise that not all marketing internships are like this, you’ll pull through.

If you can, check out some online courses from places like Digital Marketer etc. which might help.
FB likes don't = ROI. Your manager is an idiot.
Wow. I'm sorry this is happening to you. your higher-ups have no idea what they're doing, and the results they're expecting from you, given what you have to work with, are just ridiculous. 

&#x200B;

If I were you I would just try to figure out a way to spin this situation as positively as you can so that you can walk away with /some/ experience and have something in your favor to report back from your internship. Create some realistic, manageable goals for yourself at this point so at least you have that to report back. Because given your resources and inexperience you're not going to reach the (insane) company goals. And don't feel bad, it's not your fault.

&#x200B;

 I would focus on taking this from a largely bought audience to at least a somewhat engaged one (although easier said than done with no budget). Build a strategy and create a content calendar. Keep up the work on getting leads. At least by the end you can hopefully say that you implemented a new process from the ground-up, brought in leads, and created an engaged community where there was none. 

&#x200B;

Good luck! 
I've worked on the freelancer and agency side (agency now) and did tons of eComm, hopefully I can add some insight. 

&#x200B;

You have a huge scope of work for your digital marketing - how much of it do you want to hand off? $700K revenue is small enough that little marketing mishaps won't tank your brand, but still large enough that strategy moves can mean the difference in a few hundred thousand $$. 

&#x200B;

Freelancers are a bigger risk but a lot cheaper - if you think you can handle the slight increased risk of lower quality or less reliable work, it's probably worth it at your revenue level to go with freelancers (unless your expenses are well under control and you have more room). You'll probably be best off getting a few different ones to cover all of what you need vs. trying to find one that can do it all. On the other hand, one agency will probably be able to take care of everything, including the strategy.

&#x200B;

Standard agency retainers for multi-channel stuff is usually $1k - $5k monthly per channel depending on how much you need (we usually run $1k per channel per month for smaller businesses). Good quality freelance marketers should be around at least $20 -  $40/hour. Much higher for strategy
Your submission has been automatically removed because you are new to our community, spend more time contributing with your comments before posting.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/DigitalMarketing) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Hey there. I see you're having trouble with the AutoModerator on here. 

I started as a freelancer and am now scaling my operation into an agency model - I'd be willing to chat with you about options and see if we would be a fit to work together in any capacity.

If we're a fit, great, and if not, that's fine too. 

If we aren't a fit, I'd be happy to point you in the right direction.

Thoughts?
What year is it?
I have not had experience personally with this model, but some thoughts:

I would be a little bit wary of this approach and might even try to walk them through why a % of ad spend or even a flat monthly fee would be a better model.

Example: if you get paid $0.10 per click and drive 100,000 clicks, but none of them convert, you still get $10,000 and now the company doesn't have any leads (bad for them). Alternatively, if you get paid $10 per lead, and you are only able to drive 20 leads that month, your gross earnings are only $200 (bad for you).

I would walk them through a hybrid approach where you set a monthly or quarterly goal: set your monthly fee slightly below normal and then say "if I can surpass LY's clicks (or leads, whichever is the actual metric they mean), I will get an additional $X per click/lead."

This approach would lower the risk on your end, but give them confidence that you are still motivated to try and perform.


What happens when you spend $100k on your billing account and they only get them 4 leads?

Sounds like you're putting yourself on the hook for the entire budget if they don't like the results. 
Really not my area of knowledge but an interesting idea. How would you define "lead"? I like the transparency but feel like the client would see you as "click machine". 
If I was given enough control and visibility I’d consider it. The goal CPL would have to be reasonable enough. I’d forecast the cost per click, expected conversion rate, add my desired margin and if the math works, go for it. If the target cpl is too low for me to make money I’d pass.
Wow. If they want to pay you per click, jump on that. That's the dumbest method of measuring value. 
You have to set your contract up to get paid on results if you want to make the most money, only do this if you really are good. 

Set your metric to convert whether it be clicks, landing page views.

Think of it from a financial POV. They want to know what they are spending their money on, the better the numbers sound mixed with low risk value, ( commission based ) 


There is an element here about your relationship with the client, and your goals with them. 

Are you really looking to partner, and share risk and reward results? 

Are they looking to get a bunch of cheap leads? 

Are you looking to fleece them for every penny you can for however long (or short) they are a customer?

  
You can come up with meaningful, and 'good looking' pricing plans for any of those approaches. You could surely generate a ton of clicks, and charge them a good rate for it, and laugh all the way to the bank. But those clicks would likely be poor quality and not turn into revenue for your client. You could charge them the same per lead as you would per click, and work really hard and go broke trying to make your client happy. Or you could find a way to meet in the middle and have a good long term working relationship, but find you may never reach agreement on metrics and price. 

&#x200B;

As for measuring the value of a click or lead, you can use the 'reverse demand waterfall' technique to tell you how many clicks and leads they need, and how much they are worth. When you look at how much they cost, you can see immediately what is a good or bad use of those funds!
It's bad practice, don't devalue the service itself. 
[removed]
Every employer defines the roles different. None of these are good for a new employee in the industry.

Manager - usually manages camapign and all the employees working on it. I currently hold this role and I delegate tasks and meet with the client etc etc. (short version)

Strategists - does the research and helps identify who we are targeting and why and how that group will convert (short version)

Consultant - can do all of these or none depending on the level on consulting.

If you're new I would shoot for analyst and or coordinator. I would not hire ANYONE without at least 2 yrs experience. I have been in this industry for about ten years now and have seen plenty of people come and go. You need the experience with clients not just with the execution of the campaign. In my opinion that is where the value of experience comes in.

Feel free to PM if you have any other questions.
Usually all the roles are played by one and that is digital marketer. A digital marketer is a consultant because He/She gives advice or consult the clients about benefits of digital marketing and Digital marketing strategies are also prepared by digital marketer. In the end, Digital marketing activities are also handled by Digital marketer. In most companies this is the scenario but you can find in few companies that they assign these roles to different people.

&#x200B;

Digital marketing is a vast field which has many things like SEO, SMO, SEM, SMM, Content marketing, Understand the market etc. In the end I would like to say that a beginner should start from one by one.
This are different names used by companies based on their internal structure, strategist position is for someone who is hands on guy, while manager would manage team of strategist and manage the risk/reward generated by their work.

While consultant is normally external who i not employed on payroll he is paid for the hours or task done.  But as said it depends on companies to companies how they read and define titles.
As a few people have said those titles are a little more experienced than a beginner.  However, titles are so personal to the company that I rarely look at them (except to see if the word marketing or digital might be in there somewhere.)

&#x200B;

Look at the requirements for marketing - analyst, executive, marketer, assistant jobs. They often end up being the most common titles for people with little experience.

&#x200B;

And don't worry too much about the "digital" title. There are a few specialist titles for beginners like Social Media Assistant etc. Depends what your speciality (if you have one) is and most marketing jobs have at least an essence of "digital" these days. 
There’s a whole range of skill sets under digital, and different career tracks. 

There’s the technical aspect, where you specialise in the technical/operational aspect of DM; eg on-site SEO, coding, web development, executing media buy/PPC etc people within this career track end up as more technical performance specialists. 

There’s also the strategy aspect of DM, where people specialise in overall strategy planning, such as campaigns to run, which media channels to buy, which influencers to engage etc. People here usually end up as strat planners/head of strategy.

There’s also the data track of DM, where people look into using data to improve marketing initiatives, through data mining, research, visualization and analysis. Career tracks: data analyst.

Finally, there’s the digital generalist, which are usually the jacks of all trade, with experience across the above mentioned functions within DM. They are the ones who tend to end up as all rounded digital managers/directors in smaller digital setups, or as a business director.

Depends on your interests, there are various trainings to dive into. Good luck!! 
I think HubSpot's Inbound Certification will give you a good place to start. It's free and it gives you some of the main elements of digital marketing to get you grounded. Like SEO, content marketing, email marketing, social, etc. You'll be exposed to a few things and you can see what you start to gravitate towards.

Good luck!


Good email marketing (nurture funnels) are always in demand. 
I recommend looking for an entry-level role at a small business or startup. Then you'll have the opportunity to dapple in a lot of those elements and see which one you like best as you develop your career. 
Look at threads where people have asked similar questions and find the most comprehensive answers with the most upvotes. 
if you are a beginner you have to learn something about digital marketing like SEO  and most important part that how to get traffic to your offers and i am frankly saying you have to give some hours to learn this as a Newbie but after learning everything there are lot of chance to make your Future In Digital Marketing. There are lot of companies giving freelancers jobs so you can make Some Revenue From Home but for this you have to expert on your Niche and come with confidence on digital marketing Field if you will success No one can stop to fly in sky and it will Rain of Revenue 
I used to work for an agency that handled a lot of Facebook advertising, we started to believe that once an ad was banned it increased the likelihood of future ads becoming banned when posted from the same account (we had one account that couldn’t get anything approved). 

We kept contacting FB support every day voicing our frustrations and threatening to pull all of our ads off the site. One day, the original ad was suddenly approved and ran fine. 

My point is, there is definitely a human element to FB advertising if you can get past the bots and get a real person to realize you’re not trying to scam anyone. 

Best of luck to you. 


Reason might be:   
 increase your follower   
or earn money online type pitch.   

It feels like this probably falls foul of the MLM algorithm. Basically the "Get rich quick" type language. Facebook are usually zero help. Is there a landing page attached or just a video? 

&#x200B;

Change the wording completely to something vaguely relevant but not pitchy. Pause and review, submit for manual review if its refused and then contact facebook directly about it. Once one is approved, I've had the same positive as Brendan that its easier once one is approved.
3 charges

1. Setup
2. Managment Monthly
3. Budget Monthly

I always use client credit card details for accounts. This means that their cashflow problems are their problem. 

Agree during set up budgeting so they aren't surprised.

&#x200B;

I would usually charge around about: 1-2k for setup depending on industry and amount of copy they want written.

Then £300-£600 a month for monitoring.

Budget adjustments are agreed with the client but the management fee remains the same unless extensive extra keyword research is needed.

&#x200B;
Always try to charge client with two things in mind.

1. Account and Campaign setup cost (one time)
2. Monthly retainer for campaign management

The account and Campaign setup cost is for the first time as you will be doing the majority work initially and the I would recommend charging 50 percent of the monthly budget as a retainer. In your case it will be

$500 for account and Campaign setup
If the client spend $1000 every month then 50 percent of it will be $500

You will be sending $1000 invoice for the first month and then it will be $500 every month. If the budget goes up your monthly invoice will go up too.

The percentage could be different for different clients.

Thanks
Use their ad account for ad spend, tell them to put credit card with $1000 in their ad account

Ask them to bank transfer your retainer, in this case is $500
Yes it is possible.. depends on your capacity to learn and grab.. you can refer some YouTube videos and blogs which focus on blueprint exams.. you can find sample questions on internet if you do little search.. i think the whole course is divided into little modules.. and each module has seperate exam and certificate.. so you can achieve them one by one...
Yes, it is possible but you have to put your time and efforts in Facebook Blueprint. Then you will be able to take the test with 1 or 2 weeks.
Is this for the paid test?
Hello there, 

Greetings!!

&#x200B;

Digital Marketing is a good course if you have any future goal regarding JOB, FREELANCE or BUSINESS. Every course in DM is important and connected with each other. SEO & SMM both are important, first SEO is to be done in website while promoting your website using SMM.   
Both SEO & SMM are easier to practise and helpful for promoting your blog/website on the internet.  
SMM would be good to start with, because they also have paid advertising on these platforms that are in high demand. If you learn Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter advertising, you'll be in a good spot beside generally knowing social media strategy. 
I would definitely learn SMM. There are many agencies and in house companies hiring SMM experts. SEO is important for web developers. So, if you plan on developing websites in html5 I believe it’s obligatory to learn SEO. Otherwise, SMM will give you an edge and possibly lead to a profession.

In digital marketing the goal is to be knowledgeable of different platforms. There are three types of platforms (Social, Digital, and Search). Social platforms are: Facebook Ads, Snapchat Ads, Twitter Ads. In your case, digital platforms will be running YouTube or Display off Google Ads. Finally, the main search platform is Google Ads as well. But, bing and yahoo have their own search platforms as well.

Some very high level concepts for SMM to get you started. There are two main cost metrics (CPM and CPC.) CPM is cost per thousand impressions. CPC is cost per click. The main cost metric for social and digital platforms tend to be CPM (though, sometimes CPV cost per view is applicable). For search, CPC is the main cost metric since you (the advertiser) is only charged based on clicks.

Good luck! Enjoy the process.
SEO gives results after weeks and months and if you want instant results then go for SMM
Social Media Marketing will be a lot easier to learn.  
check ur messages
Seo and smm both are different 

SEO Will Take more time to give Result and SMM will give you Result Instant but you have to implement properly Otherwise You will not Get You ROI also So i suggest you first learn everything and go a head and Start With SMM and Make Huge Revenue
There is a lot of difference between SEO and SMM. SEO stands for search engine optimization it helps you to get organic traffic from major search engines. Apart from that SMM stands for social media marketing which is use to get paid traffic from various social media channels. 
I think yes... But why you run ads on snapchat... Which type of ads you run ??
Being a catalyst for change is important, but the same companies who can achieve that have the resources to effectively react to trends at a moment’s notice too. This is where agencies often choose to specialize in one thing and attempt to be the best at it. After full maturity, they’re usually then acquired by a large agency or holding company for their capabilities (should they be successful in establishing them). 
If you're starting from scratch, there is a lot of good online content out there to start to understand the landscape (HubSpot, Sprout Social, The Optimist, Neil Patel...). But, if you're really looking to establish a career, I  recommend taking some in-person courses for your resume and to really hone your skills. BrainStation has a great digital marketing program for example. (Disclosure: I work with BrianStation)
I took a lot of courses through Lynda, and if you leverage them properly, they can take you a long ways.
Create account on quora like websites and create questions and answers with diff account. Use (best) type keywords. Try this and report me
It takes couple of weeks to couple of months. Basically it depends on your SEO efforts. If you do lots of hard work in building the high authority backlinks, then you can rank your keyword within a few weeks. 
Is it indexed? Since ive ranked for the keyword in 2 days all using on page optimization and no backlinks 
Please pm with the keywords you target and your url, I think this time the keyword your are aiming is more competitive than what you usually targeted, you have to build a real backlinks strategy! 
[removed]
Where are you now that there aren’t any openings? PPC is red hot. Any major city will have it. If you love the idea of NYC then go for it, although you’ll probably have to pay your way there. There are other much cheaper major cities that would work just as well. 
Yes, you can do so. 
Exact same situation here. Really struggling to find a position doing PPC. I'm in Melbourne, Australia. Applying for 'Marketing Coordinator' jobs as well but haven't got an interview for any, seems like it's tough at the moment.
Try to land some freelance jobs on websites like upwork or other freelance platforms. You could also make posts in Facebook groups targetting Amazon/Ebay Sellers. If you have a certain size as an Amazon seller, you soon wanna expand your ads to google and other search engines. Hope I could give you  some inputs. :-)
In Salesforce, we use specific Inquiry Source, Inquiry Source Detail, and then also use Campaigns. We tend to get pretty specific with them and then group them at high level by Referral Source. And that would be things like Internet, Word of Mouth, Outreach, etc. 
We just did a massive lead source mapping exercise for our new lightning instance not sure what's the best way to share add me on Linkedin? pm me
You can get a certain number of emails per month free with mailjet dot com. Hope that helps. 
Mailchimp is free as long as your subscribers are not too many, you can have different styles of mails when browsing the templates section.
MailChimp is free up to a certain number of subscribers. You can also search for "MailChimp alternatives" if that doesn't suit you.
Just out interest, why would you need so many variants if you're using marketing automation? Surely you can build a single template and pull in the various products at point of send?

...or even at point of open based on tracked behaviour.
Have you tried the Postcards by Designmodo? here are marketing and transactional emails.
There’s a pretty large document out there with a variety of ad stats updated February 2019.

Whatever you’re interested in specifically just add benchmark to that and search away.

Examples:
Bounce rate benchmarks for online retailers.
Click through rate benchmarks for health care display ads.
Video completion rate benchmarks of pre roll video.
The answer is always reddit lol

Jk, good question tho
Start in analytics looking day by day at refers? I’d even export the data into a google sheet. Look for the spike 
Are you staying you are loosing your traffic source / medium information because of your cookie policy popup? That shouldn't happen. Fix that and you've answered your own question :)
The guidelines given in the GDPR are generally sensible and personally I apply them to all users.

Once users sign up, you can tell them about cookies in your privacy policy. For new/unknown users, you may not need cookies at all.
Before branding comes into spotlight. Ask yourself a question.

Question: Who is my client, what is my product and how does it differ?

If you'd sufficient firepower to create a huge impact (Disruptive force) within an industry's ecosystem, this is how your brand gets the initial breakthrough in becoming a distinctive icon.

However, if it's nothing unique, get crunch into pieces by the big entities within the industry.
Distinctive and iconic are two very different things. To be iconic, you need a long history of providing customers with value. To be distinctive, you just need a differentiator and way to stand out.  
SEMrush for competitive research
I use SpyFu for this, I like the UI more than SEMrush
Semrush!
I'm not sure if I understood what you mean but I Ahrefs can be used to tell which keywords are targeted by which site and which ad and which landing page. 
No doubt, SEMRush is the best tool for this.
https://www.reddit.com/r/DigitalMarketing/comments/b3tyvn/considering_career_change_to_dm/ej2spk8/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app

Read this comment!
Jobs are about networking and who you know. I made the pivot out of PR and into marketing early in my career too. I got my first job and many jobs after that because of someone I had met earlier in my career. Mete people at brands and companies you wan to work at ... and some you would never think about. You will get out of it what you have put in, in the end if you network with people and make it something you do regularly. 
If you actually know what you're doing in digital marketing you don't work for somebody because you know how to make your own money. Best part about it. 
Gosh I feel like all of us in this field run into this same...mid career crisis?  I’ve been in a similar rut for the last year, but somehow luckily landed something in general digital marketing to move me forward. 

My professional opinion when I typically hire for my team is experience trumps certifications unless they are entry level. Which you aren’t. I don’t mean for this to sound like a dumb or snide-ish question but have you applied to more management positions where you manage juniors who will do the day to day ppc or seo work? 

Also Which city are you in? Happy to connect you with some recruiters I know if they are in your area. 
My advice to you would be

1. Don't spend too much time in studying the course and passing the certification 

2. Find a small business through friends and family and offer free social media  management and basic website optimization

3. Read step by step guides on how to build a specific marketing campaigns by searching on Google

4. Get yourself familiared with tools like Google Analytics Google Ads and Google Webmaster and how to set them up with the website

5. Implement all the things you learn everyday on the business you're promoting

6. Learn the art of creating the ad copy and doing keywords research




Client side opinion from my own experience: 

Smaller companies want to know why it’s important and what you do. 

Larger companies want to know the key numbers and how you can add value.

The change I suggest for larger companies is stop talking effort and start talking benefit. 
Outcomes, not inputs. 

Bigger companies have heard all that shit a bazillion times. And the people you are talking to are a bit more savvy , so the black box of magic routine has no power.

Pitch a plan

Work the plan

Show results
Any chance I could bother you for a bit more info on your toolset and how you put it together? 
Answer this clearly:

- What can you do for me
- Why I need it
- Why you
- Prove it
- How can I get it (give me something easy to say yes to)
Play up their pain points (personally and as a business).  
If it isn't the CEO but the Marketing Director at a larger business show and demonstrate the value he can then communicate to his boss (and take the credit).  


Have actual numbers and valid results of how it improved their business. Cool so you improved their page speed/google ranking etc. WTF did that change in terms of customers/revenue/ etc.  


Competitor research. If you attack a certain industry you are doing audits of 10-15 of those companies right?  If a few of them are doing it well already (either with you or independently) talk about that and evoke jealousy or the FOMO on your lead.   
It seems a bit dodgy, but nobody got fired by copying their biggest competitor/doing more than them. They often do for missing out on what those competitors are doing.   

I like to take their presumed keywords (usually their "services offered") and compile a 10-15 word keyword ranking report to show them exactly where they are using FAT Rank (nifty little Chrome extension).   


Also, I'll DM you an SEO audit tool that we made that will give you a \~20 page report so you can look like you did a fuckton of research.
Lastpass on Chrome and smartphone?
Lastpass is the one I use, I think there are a few others too. 
I use 1Password and have for years.  Wonderful program.  
Bitwarden, it’s like lastpass but free
You could get shot down for a number of reasons - not a personality fit, you’re fine but they just have a better candidate, your salary range is too high, etc. 

Without knowing more, not sure anyone on reddit can help. 

You’re a coordinator now and you mention that you’re doing well in your interviews. Do your skills and experience match up to what the company wants?

You’re confident you’re doing well - are you sure you’re not coming off as *too* cocky? That can mean personality isn’t a fit. 

You can always ask the interviewer why you were rejected. Sometimes they’ll actually tell you which can help determine what the points are. 

Lastly, jobs are not easy to find. Many people will go into 20 interviews and not get a job offer. I think 3 is a very small sample size without knowing more about your experience and the company’s needs. 
Yep, I'm hitting my max capabilities at the moment and it is hard!  


I'm hoping it's because a few big projects are starting all at the same time and will be manageable after this.  


At the stage of do I ride it out and tone down my sales/advertising? Do I try and get rid of the clients who are paying least? Or do I hire & train and look to grow?  


Anyone who's been through the above would appreciate any advice.  


Torn between scaling up and building a proper 'agency' or having the freedom I currently do (or did a few months ago haha) as a one-man-band!
A lot of brand/creative/web/PR agencies outsource paid digital media to other agencies. So they take in the budget from the client but run the media thru their partner who will report to the agency.

We do it all the time. Ranging from smaller digital agencies without the capabilities, medium agencies without the bandwidth, PR/Creative/Web agencies that are out of their depth and want an enterprise solution, etc.

Some ignore it entirely but the ones that don't see it as a value add and a way to increase their retainer/monthly billing and most importantly stay relevant to their clients.

A lot of agencies suggest clients pull in another agency to do this for them when they could be in control and taking a piece of the spend. 
Absolutely. 

I ran a digital agency for a number of years...

In the beginning, we used to compete on price, and take on as many clients as we could manage and ebb and flow freelancers to handle the excess when we didn't have enough time. 

As we scaled and got more steady clients, we were able to hire a few key people to manage them. Having a handful of well paying steady clients made it a lot easier to say no to shitty clients.

Now our intake form is basically a filter to see if we want to take on a client. 

No more "one and dones", if someone wants that then we charge a healthy premium. 

Now we are priced well above competition. 

Why? Because we spend more time and do more than most agencies who honestly do the bare minimum. I've seen proposals, agreements, etc from competitors, big firms, and its mostly fluff/BS/vague and they still compete on price. So when I get a prospective client who is shopping around and have them break down whats actually done with other firms, we win every time. It helps justify our high pricing and weed our smaller clients who we don't really want anyway.

I've found that bigger clients are happy to pay more, require less client management and understand things take time. Smaller clients eat time, constantly complain and are apt to jump ship mid stream. 

As such, we only take on bigger clients for longer term. This allows us to scale at a reasonable pace organically, as getting one more big client comfortably allows us to hire additional people to help manage them. Longer term means we can show them scaling results, so they are likely to continue to have us manage them.

We have minimum standards that need to be met for us to take you on as a client - adequate budget, time and evaluation of their company where we believe we can actually help them. It was learned the hard way but we say no to more people than we say yes to. 
Are guys US based?
Yes, in Italy too :)
Have you considered selling clients? 
Yes, it happens from either being too busy or the quality of the lead doesn't make a good fit (timeline, budget, etc) as your schedule gets filled. Sometimes, while difficult, you have to say No. 

&#x200B;

You can always partner with another digital agency to share/sell your unwanted leads and vice-versa. That might be an excellent way to handle some of these situations.
Choose an industry you'd like to enter first, a great way of making a fist impression is going up to local businesses with incomplete/absent Google maps listings and helping them with a quick Google my business account. That way you'll give them a taste of what you can offer and establish value.
Why don't you make some slide presentations about how big companies are dealing with social media and how you can help peoples business with your ability and skills on social media marketing. 

&#x200B;

It would definitely help.
Not to be mean, but who do you think you can help? Do you have professional experience helping these sorts of companies?
Lead with value.

&#x200B;

One of the best ways to do this is 'lumpy mail'. When I first started I would record a video of me auditing their social media and then put it on a flash drive and mail it to them in a gold padded envelope. 

&#x200B;

Then follow up with a phone call.
What does having a lot of followers have to do with being a credible social marketer?

Nothing. Follower count doesn't matter.

Teach local businesses that and use the conversation to open doors.
is it a push or pull campaign?  I wouldn't want 4-5 emails from some company that has scraped my contact from a database or linked in.  one email should be enough and if Im interested (ie: pass the 1st CTA, then email me the next 2-3 emails).

&#x200B;

\- A/B test subject lines before going out to all

\- pre header text

\- text option of email

\- alt text on images

\- CTA above fold for most common clients and 13inch screen

\- CTA above fold for mobile optimised version

\- optimised for most clients

\- make sure your data is clean beforehand, dont use a salutation like "Hello AUSSIEJOSH,"
From my past experience in a B2C company

\- I don't think generic wishes work. Customers are already bombarded with messages on email, and if the event is a major holiday, they will receive numerous such messages around the holiday. 

\- The holiday can be a way to run special offers, which you would not run otherwise - either big discounts, or other freebies. 

\- Depending on what you are selling, and alignment with the holiday, you should see an uptick in engagement and transactions around the holiday. The engagement can then be used for retargeting later. 

\- Brand awareness would be hard to track, and would be on a longer time horizon anyway. But a few repeat purchases will of course contribute to brand awareness and recall. 

&#x200B;

PM me if you want to discuss specific case for your startup. 
We run campaigns specific to different festivals like Diwali, New Year, and even Women's Day. We were ourselves surprised to see the response of women's day campaign and the footfall it generated at one of our outlets.

Our learning was to actually trying to find the reason why a particular audience will care about your offer / service during a particular festival season. If we do that right, it works despite the clutter. 
Hubspot and Google ads and analytics 
Not free, but check out **RedditGuru.com**

Your mind will get blown 
Check backlinko for SEO
Wordsteam for social media

These are not really courses but ultimates guides.

I signed up for a 30 day trial on audible and downloaded Garry V’s “Crushing it” book. It’s a trove of information about social media marketing that I find fascinating. 
Well there are plenty of online courses for Digital Marketing, but as you are asking for Free courses, so the best destination would be YouTube. You can find lot of free tutorials and videos there on Digital Marketing.
Hubspot, Udemy, Academy for ads and YouTube ...etc are the best websites to learn digital marketing...
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/marketing] [Agency owners - how did you build your team? & please critique my plan.](https://www.reddit.com/r/marketing/comments/b2zzvf/agency_owners_how_did_you_build_your_team_please/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
Hey! I made an account to respond to this post. My digital marketing agency has worked with multiple non profits (currently working with veterans transitioning) as well as commercial/government facing brands. We would have no problem executing a politically focused influencer marketing campaign. I'd love to speak more about this, please DM me! 
I went the opposite direction, started in agency and then moved in house.

The agency I was at was super small and brutal. In the end it worked out, because it jump started my career, but I don't really see the point of going to one from an in house position. 

Agencies try to sell you on the variety and breadth of work. It's true, but it is also super shallow. You can never deep dive. You're always on a time crunch, client makes all the decisions, and client controls all of the access.

Just my experience.
I'll pass on the advice that I got from a couple of marketing mentors with 20-40 years of experience. 

1. In house pays better, is more secure, and may be better for your long-term career track.
2. Agency provides more "reps" and broader exposure. I've heard that the more typical path is from agency to in-house (get experience then get money/security).

To me, the trump card is always your happiness. If learning and working in an agency provides you with more happiness than your in-house gig, then why not? Good luck, I hope happiness is what you find in your new job!
Not a concrete suggestion, but have you looked into Google Data Studios - you should be able to import all Google data + there are connectors for facebook.
There are a ton of free data studio templates available online you could look into. That way all the setup is done you just plug in your info. We've found data studio to be a great (and free) solution for our client reporting. 
Save Big, Ski Bigger this Easter

Our lowest prices on Easter offers

&#x200B;

I prefer the top one, personally.
who
Bill is an SEO OG. Not the most exciting speech I’ve ever seen, but he’s smart, hardworking and comes to accurate conclusions about effective ways to promote a business online. I’ve seen him speak at a conference or two in the past.
Do you mean Bill Slawski?
[removed]
You should rather seek for manager skills like presentation, pitching ideas, team building and leading.

If marketing manager means seo and cpc skill then its not manager.
It sounds like you have the communications/advertising side covered, but recognise that marketing can be a very broad topic/role. 

In a management role it’s expected that you have the ability to understand and measure your market-size, to analyse your competition, to define the positioning of your products against them, the messaging that you will use to communicate benefits to the customer, and then be able to put together a strategy that will give measurable results and can be implemented by others e.g a sales team. 

And then you may have to take ownership of the website, social communication, advertising, events, training of the team etc.

How much your precious experience will be relevant/used depends a lot on the size of the company and how digital they are really.


There are several organizations. But if you're looking for an online course that you can follow at self pace and also, get a certificate- Udemy, EdX, Lynda, coursera have some pretty awesome courses.Check out the curriculum of the various courses on these sites and opt one as per your requirement. 
Google academy for ads
If you are in the UK, IDM or CIM certificates are highly recognisable. 
Hadn't realised SocialBlade had those Insta insights thanks!
You have no idea how much I appreciate you for even thinking about doing this post! I just landed my first big gig & this post was exactly what I needed! Thank you!
That's already what is happening. It's really easy to spot, especially with clout rappers. There's much cringe, adam22 has called them out literal countless times. Talked about rappers buying views for videos on his channel to boost them as most viewed on his channel or trending. At the end of the day those people would either just not be successful or the ones that made it onto his show later make themselves look bad some way or another.

It's just easier to make some good music that people want to listen to instead of sounding like every other trash rapper out there.
Are you receiving rough Cost Per Acquisition estimates from these agencies? What platforms are they suggesting you market on?

Estimates of app downloads vs ad spend vary wildly. Truth is its really hard to know before you've tested the waters for your specific niche. Have you found any marketers who have sold to your target audience before?

My main tips. Avoid agencies. They don't care about you. Avoid anyone who started an FB ads company in the last 12 months. They're not ready for you. 

Try to find someone local and affable who you can meet often. Work with them closely to test out your marketing message, platform and strategy. Alternatively, learn it all yourself and outsource execution to experienced offshore designers and campaign builders.  

If your product is as incredible as you say, you need to focus on testing creative and testing your platforms and targeting. Obvious stuff but no need to go wildly complex at the early stages.
What's your total monthly budget and proposed platforms?

Most people will want to run search and social without being able to use programmatic display to drive CPA down.

We see $25 CPA with FB alone. $18 FB+Search and $10-15 CPA for Search+Social+Display.

When you cultivate the entire marketing funnel you begin to let each platform play to its strengths. 
Nah, I ran campaigns for $7/mo memberships and the company did great.

First of all, if they buy a $20 membership, and that membership renews in 30 days, you’ve 2x’d your ROAS in that time. 

Depending on the industry/keywords, there’s not much you can do about CPC if you want to show up. And your CPA ties to CPC pretty heavily. 

How frequently does the membership renew? If you’re selling subscriptions you need to look at average lifetime customer value when looking at your CPA. That’s why people will pay to give out free trials.
CPA will depend on so many numbers and more info needed to provide you with a more structured approach and strategy :) Cheap lead gen products are quite easy to sell, if you have the hook and targeting set up correctly. 

Do you already have a list, or is it a completely new venture? How much traffic is going through your website at the moment? What are your current activities in terms of marketing? 
Is the product highly visual, or Instagram can be a waste of money?
Do you know who your target audience is? How much data do you have at hand, so we can understand the possible scope of scaling and optimisation? 

Tell me a bit more about the product and it will be easier to suggest a solution. 

I don't think it is possible to create editable templates on canva as once you save or download it it will be in an uneditable format. The only way would be to create a template and share with them to edit it on your canva account, as far as I can see, which is not practical. You may be better off with Google Docs, here you can create documents and download a link to share the live document with others. 
The productive salesperson who you don’t have to guarantee income for or provide leads to is a unicorn and just as real, in my experience. If I have the skills to self generate and close leads for digital marketing, why would I take a commission instead of simply outsourcing the work and keeping a larger piece of the pie?

My opinion is that your slowdown is a leading indicator of the recession to come shortly. Of course adding to the top line would help, but I would probably be looking more to cut costs and strengthen relationships with existing clients if I was you. 
bumping for more eyes and opinions. 
You don't target on facebook with keywords. 
Can you elaborate on this? Waaaay too broad. What kind of products are you talking about? 
I've done my fair share of podcast sponsorships and advertising for a B2B software company. 

The company sells individual-level analytics software, so our main target audience are salespeople in Sweden.

In general, podcast advertising is BRANDING. It's long term brand awareness and not anything else. 

It will generate some leads and website visitors, but it probably won't give you crazy results overnight. 

We paid I think something like $3500 per season (about 6 episodes).

Anyhow, ive got some tips if you want to make the most out of it: 

1. Find relevant podcasts in your niche. 

Don't go with general big-audience podcasts like NPR, Joe Rogan or American Life unless your product is for that specific audience. A podcast with 2000 - 3000 listeners will probably yield better results than a podcast with 2m listeners. The reason behind it is RELEVANCY. 

--------

2. Create a specific landing page with the shortest URL possible - and have a unique offer. 

When the podcast host announces your offer, you DON'T want them to say "Visit company.com for more information on bla bla". 
You want them to say "If this sounds interesting, visit company.com/podcast to get a free trial/book/meeting/product/whatever"

On your landing page, just have the headline "Free offer for [Podcast name] listeners", and then have your form or button or schedule or whatever right below it. 

That headline combined with a CTA straight away ensures that any visitor coming from the podcast knows exactly where they are and that they're in the right spot. 

Your logo is probably in your header anyway so don't worry about visitors thinking they're on the podcasts own website. 

--------

3. Don't create scripts, create recommendations

If you create a script for your podcast host, it will sound forced. The best thing is to let the podcast host just wing it, and help him or her with some guidance. 

Also, make sure your offer ties into whatever the episode is about if possible. 

You want to make it sound as close to a recommendation as possible. 

Listen to how Andrew Warner does it on Mixergy - that kind of advertising style generated the best results for us. 

---

4. Don't pay for more than 6 months / 1 season at a time

Try to set a goal in advance. For example, if lead generation is your #1 prio, make sure to have a number for GEC - "Good Enough to Continue". 

If you want leads, then tell your advertiser that if you get 50 leads during the first season, you'll continue the sponsorship in the next season.

If not, then just go to the next podcast and try something new. 

This puts pressure on both you and the podcast host to continually communicate and switch things up when your ads don't work as expected. 

This kind of deal also gives you down-side protection, and is ideal if you can work directly with the podcast host and nothing through an agency. 

-----

5. Market the podcast 

You need to help spread the word for the podcast and the episodes you sponsor. Don't think for a second it's something you can just set and forget. 

A podcast sponsorship is a collaboration, not a delegation.

-------

Hope this gave you some good insight, tips and pointers. 

Keep in mind that the episodes you sponsor probably will circulate on the web for years to come, even if the podcast shuts down.

None of the estimates are reliable. When bidding manually, I bid higher for exact than phrase due to relative conversion rates I’ve historically experienced.
Keep in mind that phrase match will show up for your phrase plus other words in the beginning or end.  “Bridal show pictures” would trigger your phrase match of bridal show.

Exact match will show up only for your phrase. It will include close variations as well as different order of words. “Bridals shows” would trigger your exact match keyword.

I recommend you look into the search terms triggering your KWs. Find those that are irrelevant to tour objective, and add them as negatives.
hi, they are just estimates only. 

Technically phrase match is less expensive because its not as targeted as exact match. the only reason i can think of that exact match is much cheaper is because maybe fewer people search for the exact match
Check out Centro if you’re just getting it going. 
I actually work for a programmatic shop. Pm me and we can set up a discovery call!
What is the niche?
First of all you need to do a through study of what this business is about and what is the market capability of the business digitally.Then you need to explore that market and see at which point you can take advantage.  


Secondly making that business a brand in the relevant industry should be your primary target. Focus on social media marketing and also market the products as a brand.
I'm not American so it might be different there. Isn't the point of an internship that you learn off someone experienced?

How are you an intern yet you're the only one who knows digital marketing?

&#x200B;
If you have to ask without doing a shred of independent research beforehand, I don’t think digital marketing is for you. The whole industry is about research with trial and error.
Hubspot, Google AdWords, Google Analytics and Facebook Blueprint have free online classes. Hubspot has a particularly good one on Email Marketing. You can also train online to be Marketo or Salesforce certified, which is somewhat operational but in demand. If you’re more technically inclined, look into job descriptions for data analysts and start building yourself a learning plan. There are so many options!

I agree w the earlier comment to follow what interests you. Start there. Then once you’re in an entry level position, you can see the other digital jobs and get a better sense of which path or channel you want to pursue. 
If you've browsed this subreddit, you'll undoubtedly found the 1M+ threads on getting started. Not being rude, just want you to understand what you're really doing in digital marketing: 

&#x200B;

Research. If you can't find answers on your own, you're in the wrong business. 
Create content (make a blog, youtube channel, etc.) and start teaching yourself how to market it (social media, SEO, etc) using free educational resources online. Stay dedicated and consistent, marketing usually doesn't pay off immediately, it takes time. And/or get an entry level job in marketing.
Digital Marketing is a vast field and you cant just master all of it you need to figure out first which part of digital marketing you are focusing on. Let me list down some of them below  


1. SEO
2. SMM
3. Email Marketing
4. Content Marketing  


it is up to you where do you want to see yourself and whats your objective.  


Hope this helps
I would maybe see what it all includes and then start with one topic. For example there is social media, social media marketing, seo, sem, content marketing and so much more...

I am in digital marketing but I don't care about each of these things. Find out which topic is interesting to you before you buy a book.

Also, if you have the time and are interested in writing you could start a blog. The great thing about a blog is that it touches many of the digital marketing topics. 
How would you rank yourself? by making content about trending topics you will get ranked on google in no time literally now it's up to you how you manage to make content about trending topics
HubSpot and Google AdWords & Analytics. Start there, they have free certifications too. Also, read and listen to Neil Patel, you'll learn a lot and where the industry is going. 

Digital marketing covers a lot of areas, find what interests you the most and focus on those areas. 
Using linkedin , Search engine Land, Search Engine journal.. It's very useful to you.
Very first step is 

1. Create your website. 
2. Write some blog post
3. Try to rank them with good content. 
You can practice using real clients' GA accounts. I'd go through and make inferences from the data (this is assuming you've already done a solid discovery/ROI/custom call with the client to find out what the KPIs & growth they want to see). Then based on what we know about consumer behavior, industry metrics, local market data, etc. bring them info that matters to them to make recommendations to continually optimize their strategy... I'm not sure there is a course for that, it seems like it would be more of a critical thinking skill and is based on having a good grasp on what the client wants to do. There are so many metrics you can pull but to analyze every single thing is boring and exhaustive and won't necessarily address what the true goal is for your clients. There are probably articles online somewhere regardless where you can find tips and tricks. Good luck! Please excuse my brevity, I'm on mobile.
What is facebook?
Paid social questions about targeting, ad group setup, etc.  Are you certified in FB Blueprint.  Organic social is largely useless for brand and revenue objectives. 
They might ask you to show them your personal social media accounts. Make sure to delete every negative post! And they might ask you on how you would improve their social media accounts. My first job out of college was a social media manager. It's a fun job but it does suck the life out of you if you don't have good time management. Good luck!
Examples of how you have led a team, and how you will generate leads/revenue 
Benchmark KPIs
Give me an example of a recent conflict you faced and how you resolved it...


What is an area you wish to work on?


I’ve recruited for a Social Media Manager role in my team recently and the things that the successful candidate demonstrated were:
- he had clearly spent a lot of time looking at our existing channels, understanding their purpose and the content that they promoted
- he was ready to challenge us on what we were currently doing on social media
- he demonstrated that he knew that constant testing and learning was crucial
- he brought lots of examples of his previous experience that was relevant to the role.

Do the above and you’ll be in with a chance. Good luck.
They’ll ask you 1) thoughts on company’s  current social media strategy, what’s good and bad about it and 2) fave social media profiles for each channel. Have examples to back up choices.
Definately if will not be....what is this that...
It will be basically regarding the social media strategy, social media calendar, KPIs, campaigns, paid ads etc. 
Thank you for the insight!

Tell Me about Yourself or some variation. 
If you have to ask I question whether you’re qualified to do it
“Just because Google says you should do it, doesn’t mean you should do it.” 

Same for any ad network. With that much spend (annually? monthly?) I’m sure you have direct contact with reps at every ad network. Some reps are better than others, but they all have the same goal: get you to spend more on their network. 
Talking to customers... those always bring the AHA moments. Or customer success if that is not an option.
I'm going to take it in a slightly different direction. So feel free to disagree because it's not an optimization but an add-on.

I've seen employee advocacy time and time again get implemented at companies spending $1m+ paid, and it is a great complement to augment paid with earned media, boost everything you mentioned, and lower your CPL overall. 

&#x200B;

Cheers
Fully optimizing video creative for mobile. Scroll down in this link for the Wells Fargo example with ways we did that & the results. 

I see non-optimized videos on social all the time and I can guarantee it’s affecting their campaign performance. 

https://m.facebook.com/business/news/building-video-for-mobile-feed
Bump!
Using long form customer testimonials as ad copy — even though best practices are to have short copy on FB ads I’ve literally had ads with 2 paragraphs of direct testimonials from customers that have gotten 3x higher ROAS than the same creative only shorter copy.
that I should be charging more.

Lol, but for real I have a few because I’ve been spending massive amounts of time learning recently

1) reading customer reviews or forums/groups of the target market to learn their lingo, and their pain points and desires. Someone else said talk to customers so same idea

2) stop going for mainstream interest targeting. Instead of an interest like “golf” where people could follow but not be golfers, target interests that only a golf enthusiast would follow

3) don’t overthink things - sometimes I feel like I could be doing more for a campaign (I guess there’s always more you could do) or I feel like there’s optimizations that I’m not aware of, but the overall process is pretty simple. For example I went through a few courses recently and a lot of the experts taught me everything that I already knew, the basics, and it helped me reaffirm to not overthink the process 


 Employment & Recruiting Marketing

Influencer Marketing

 PPC Management

 Personalized Web Content

 Infographics & Motion Graphics

 Voice Search Content Optimization

 Conversion Rate Optimization

 Page Speed Optimization

 508 Compliance Design

 Online Review Management

 Content Marketing Services

&#x200B;
Add Brand Marketing as well
The expert Digital marketing services bring targeted prospects from different online platforms. They are Social media sites, referral websites and other platforms. some important areas are...

Social Media Optimization

Social Media Marketing

PPC Management Services

Facebook Advertising

Linkedin Advertising

Twitter Advertising 

Youtube Advertising

Email Marketing

Content Marketing  

Web Design

App Design
The main thing is correct apostrophe usage. 
One of the most important things agencies look for is attention to detail. I would have someone review your resume. There are a lot of grammatical and spelling errors in this post so perhaps some exist on your resume.
You’ve applied to over 190 entry level marketing jobs on indeed?? There has to be some issue we can find. I agree with the other poster, you should have someone look over your resume. 

I did one and a half  unpaid internships then started sending emails to every local marketing agency that I could find in google. I even sent messages to the ones that didn’t have any job postings up. After a month I got a call from a small marketing agency that didn’t have a job opening posted and they hired me right away. I learned a ton there that has helped me land better jobs. 
Where are you located? 
LinkedIn is your best bet. Have you gotten any feedback as to why maybe those roles didn’t work out for you? Being in the field, I definitely understand that it’s difficult to obtain a role even though they are plentiful...just trying to understand maybe where the feedback can help 
I would investigate reputable agencies near you, do some solid research. Then either find the decision makers and add / flick them a message on linkedin, call them or just show up to their office!
There should be jobs out there which don’t require experience to start entry level.
Call around town and see if any agencies near you would take on an intern. There tend not to be a ton of internships in this industry but they are out there and most will pay you at least a small stipend. 
If you have experience, that is more easy to find an agency. It's  need to recruit people with some skills with mathematics, Excel, technology, customer service, and more. I recommend you that practice it from now. Use your own campaigns.
Go to upwork, you might get some paid gigs
Well if you have the skills for it, even more if you have experience with what you want to do, there really isn't anything between you and a job. 

You just need to find someone who needs your service and is willing to pay.
First, get experience

Two, find clients. You can for example target prospects you ll like to work for. Audit their actions (website, fb page, seo ranking,...), find quick wins and long term improvements, then make them an offer they can t refuse.

But the quality of second point comes with first.
Upwork. Build your portfolio and chops at the same time.
You have to know WHICH problem you want to solve first. 

There are many to choose from. 

Learn how to solve just one for the moment, get some results and then show prospects your results. 

Don’t over complicate or overthink this stuff. 
[removed]
Hey Kaizen.

Typically get a proper branding done, that counts a dark and light logo-kit and some color research that stays prominent on everything (website, business cards, mugs, flyers, etc).

Once you are done with the same, do some phrase researches and stick to a prominent phrase while describing the business on any sort of copywriting online/offline.

Now, get started with the account creation on social channels and designing the website (if not already done). Try to keep the website clean, and mobile-friendly, and speedy, plus easy-to-go content that answers the customer side. Also put some opt-ins to generate sleeping leads.

Regarding pricing, since the person you'll be doing the marketing is your friend, ask them if they can offer you their service/product for a cheaper price. If they say yes, quote a cheaper quo. Other wise stick to the industry standard pricing.

I know it has been a vague answer. I am struggling with my karma. So yeah. :P

Hope it helps! Would be glad to answer you further.

Cheers. 
Hi!  


I am also planning a startup and currently working on it i can share the things i have been trying to do to escalate and market the business.   


Social Media Platforms are the biggest brand creators now a days so i would suggest campaigns over there.  


Second brand awareness in related communities this takes alot of time but helps you alot in turn.  


&#x200B;
Brands have a great deal to do with what people believe. People are attracted to those with the same beliefs. If your client was a person, what would they believe? What are their values? What they do is merely a function of how they express their beliefs.

"the most efficient way to spend my time at this point." 

Draft a statement of work that clearly defines each deliverable, with a payment triggers for each. If not, an easier way would be to define your hourly rate and approximate the hours per deliverable. He may be your friend, but unless he's paying you a salary, set clear expectations. 

Statements of Work are referred to in services agreements, which dictate payment, severability, liability, etc. You might not think this is necessary, but maybe you want to be ready for the next opportunity that isn't your friend. Very good to do if you are a contractor instead of a Corporation. A corp protects you from damages. (eg they go out of business, sunk their investors money, etc.)

Statements of work contents..

 *  Business background
 *  Goals
 *  Discovery
 *  Planning
 *  Logo
 *  Web design
 *  SEO
 *  Email marketing
 *  Landing pages
 *  Ads
 *  Social
 *  Content creation
 *  Etc...

There are likely to be subsections that include vendor selection, negotiation etc.

 *  Assumptions. These are very important. If there are any dependencies - this is where they go. If you need him to pay his IT person to work with you, or if you need payments to be current so you can pay subcontractors, that he will provide calendar availability for feedback.
 *  Payment. If you've done this before, charge by the deliverable. It's a lot safer to bill by the hour, but don't expect to learn on their dime.
 *  Recurring charges. A retainer is a good way to keep a minimum amount of hours available only to them so you do not take on other commitments that would preclude you from servicing their account. Good for both parties.

PM if you want something more formal. I know I'm leaving details out because it's Friday and I'm on my cell!

  


  


  

Must 
Start with a brand kit. Everything else comes from that.
My advice would be not to charge, do the favour and get out. For marketing to work you need to really understand your audience, sounds like he's a little unsure of what he's doing so it will never trickle down. 
Pick a simple, out of the box bones solution for the site. 

If this is an ecomm startup, Shopify is a great solution with a fair amount of customizability and a ton of free apps that integrate extremely well with both Google Ads and Paid Social. 

Make sure you're optimizing both site side and paid side. You can have the best click through, targeting, and creative in the world, but if the site experience is completely awful, site side conversion rate will drown you. 

Finally, a bit in the weeds, but MOTION MOTION MOTION for creative. It may seem daunting depending on your skills, but even a basic gif with early quick cuts will outperform a static most of the time and pretty much guarantee a lower CPM.

Don't be afraid to invest to test, monitor updates closely, and good luck!
[removed]
Look into online work. Ratracerebellion.com is a great place to start. They have had a lot of social media marketer job postings lately. 
Remarketing and retargeting are the same thing. Build your campaign and [add an audience](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/3210317?co=ADWORDS.IsAWNCustomer%3Dtrue&hl=en&oco=0) as a placement in your campaign. Google supports have most answers when it comes to managing accounts.
Probably group them by type, you’re on the right track!
You can do product type, category or even by brand. Depends on what you sell and how people search for what you sell. We do all of the above for different clients.
The strategy of the campaign depends on a lot of factors such as number of products, product type, if you have different brands, prices etc... There is no easy way to say without analyzing your business what is correct.

However in general I never create 1 ad group per product, the management requirements on this exceeds the profitability in most cases.

Instead I recommend to group them by niche. You can use product type or custom label attributes to subdivide these ad groups by adding the info in the data feed.

So your own opinion is correct, do it by product type. There is no issue changing strategies after a couple of months when you get more data and start to see specific patterns.

&#x200B;

Hope this helps.
I'm trying to understand what it's about. I visited their site, not clear, something to do with videos.
I am a digital marketer in LA. Recently moved here from Austin. I work with the big film and tv studios and its big business. Its good work.
I was just looking at a Marketing Manager job in LA lol. If you are looking for a hot job at a tech company I would say go for it. I’m in the Bay Area myself 
I work remotely for a company based in LA. I think that’s been the best of both worlds for me
job opportunity? the COL is too high though and the place is a hellhole of degeneracy. if you value your soul, stay away
A working marketer looking to move. Remotely consulting for a firm at the moment. 
Thanks for the replies, everyone. I need to convince my manager why there’s pros for me to move to our offices in LA. Anything beneficial? 
***Job opportunity****? Although the call is too high it is also good on everything else*
Hit the Bunny Slopes This Easter With Amazing Family Discounts!
Easter memories to last a lifetime.
How far can you push the boat out? can you be a bit risky? 

\*Your friends will be piste that they missed our prices!\*

Or you could go the opposite way with some puns.

\*There Is Snow Possible Way you'll find better prices this easter\*

(FYI I hate when subject lines use my name, it's not clever.)

&#x200B;
Do not open in public***

[For your eyes only] Easter Specials

The easter bunny doesn’t want you to see this

We’ve never done this

Our loss, your gain

THIS is ending SOON

Do not share this message

The Easter Bunny will be mad....








Can you go into what your circumstances are? Pretty broad question as it stands.
It’s not SEO (search engine optimization) , because SEO refers to organic advertising.


The term coined for paid advertising is SEM - search engine marketing.
Which would cover fb, insta ads etc., any paid platform for ads.
SEO is a very difficult thing to master. Begin with PPC ads certification eg google academy for ads.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Check out Lynda.com they have some pretty solid content for beginners and intermediate level. 
Check out youtube. There is so much free content today.
Webscraping with python is  the only thing I can think of 
Their API Doesn’t allow it I don’t think 
As a digital marketer, you will need to acquire a set of skills and combine them to deliver results.

These skills include and not limited to (listed below each skill are free sources you can use to learn):   


• SEO 

SEO Learning Center by Moz

The Definitive Guide To SEO In 2018

How to Learn SEO in 2018 (and Stay Sane)

Neil Patel: The Advanced Guide To SEO

Search Engine Land’s Guide To SEO

7 Days to SEO Success

  
• PPC 

PPC University: Learn Search Marketing for Free with WordStream

Google Digital Garage

&#x200B;

• Social Media Marketing 

Social Media: The Free Beginner’s Guide from Moz

A Beginner’s Guide to Social Media Advertising

Facebook Blueprint by Facebook

Primer by Google

The Complete Guide to LinkedIn Ads

The Sophisticated Guide to Marketing on LinkedIn: 2017 Edition

The Complete Guide to Twitter Marketing

Twitter Marketing: The Essential Guide

Instagram Marketing: How to Create Captivating Visuals, Grow Your Following, and Drive Engagement

How to Create an Instagram Marketing Strategy

Snapchat Marketing: A Guide to Creating Compelling Snaps & Stories That Grow Your Brand

  
• Digital Analytics 

Google: Analytics Academy

A Beginners Guide to Facebook Insights

How to Use Twitter Analytics: The Complete Guide for Marketers

Understanding LinkedIn Analytics

Instagram Analytics Guide: How to Pull & Examine Your Data

Snapchat Analytics: How to Measure Your Brand’s Efforts on the App

  
• Design 

Graphic Design Tutorials By Canva: learn about concepts like color schemes, typography, designing with shapes and so on using Canva as a platform

Piktochart Tutorials: Learn how to create amazing infographics using Piktochart.

Visual Learning Center: Learn how to create infographics using Visme, another DIY tool.

Design Fundamentals by Crello: Crello is a new online graphic design tool that allows you to create some neat stuff. The tutorials cover a number of concepts from beginners to advanced.

  
• Inbound Marketing 

Hubspot offers a: Free Online Marketing Training | Inbound Certification

  
• Email Marketing 

A Beginner’s Guide to Successful Email Marketing

Email Marketing Made Simple: A Step by Step Guide

Getting Started with Email Marketing

&#x200B;

• Coding

 You can go to W3 School website to learn the basics for free: W3 Schools Online Web Tutorials 
Udemy is so helpful, as a digital marketer, you are constantly learning and growing. Udemy is how I keep up even as a pro!
You actually no need to take a paid course you have lot of content which you can watch and learn.

If you are interested in fb marketing you have facebook blueprint,similarly for google you have google academy
Digital Marketing involves many things such as SEO, social media marketing, link building, etc. So, you can go through the  or maybe go through the Whiteboard Friday sessions of Moz or Marketing Land to get an idea about this field. 
>'...so I can maintain an image on a business Instagram'

&#x200B;

Can you elaborate?
Yes they are totally free and you will have all the info.
I haven't really seen anything in-depth covering Instragram marketing that's any good - if you just try Googling around the subject you should find a number of blog posts that'll help. If you're looking for digital marketing help more broadly, you could do worse than reading a blog like Moz. For me, owning and operating a website, together with reading blogs, was the best to learn. 
The same to me. I am waiting for someone who will giving the best for you and me. Hope that!
Yoast is a great beginner friendly SEO plug-in for Wordpress 

Check YouTube, Udemy etc start digging in.


It's goes without saying to be very detailed oriented when doing your keyword research.

But as you're learning SEO for your website, I would also think about repurposing your web content into video and using what you learn in regards to SEO towards YouTube.

YouTube is the second largest search engine on the planet and I'm noticing an upwards climb especially with voice search becoming more and more popular. I.E people asking Google home for something and it playing a video...

I've been seeing great results on my personal stuff. Implemented some basic SEO on my videos and got them to reach views in the 5 figures a couple of times. Does this happen every time? No, but you're in a better position to go viral if you do by using YouTube as a different channel to drive traffic to your website!

Just food for thought on your Digital Marketing journey friend!
There is a google course on SEO/SEM, try looking for some insights there
This might help you out as it focuses on the basics & Advanced SEO. All the best :)

 [https://moz.com/learn/seo](https://moz.com/learn/seo) 
If you have a limited budget, then you should start building backlinks on high-authority sites. What do I mean by that? Profile links, web 2.0's, social bookmarks, article submissions, etc. 

Backlink from high-authority sites will give you that backlink diversity for SEO and will give you a nice link juice.

If you don't know where to start, check out RankdSEO.com backlink database. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of websites.
Didn’t really impact me too much, nothing I can’t do later on anyway. 

Another reason why we shouldn’t become dependant on any single platform and to diversify.
I didn’t, but I had to listen to my partner bitch bout it 
Facebook is cancer.
Just a dip in scale but we're evergreen so it wasn't that devastating. Also the API still works fine 
That was the longest outage I have experienced I believe. So glad it's up and running. Thankfully everyone has been super understanding.
Lol, oddly enough my day was WAY more productive.  

EDIT: Lol, I definitely didn't realize what sub this was at first.
But from facebook mobile app Iam still able to Manage campaigns
Not only facebook but instagram too 🙄
Setting up computer, getting logged into all platforms, and scheduling intro calls/face to face with all relevant team members and stakeholders.
Watching 400 Youtube videos to try to figure out wtf I was doing.
Getting Admin access to all platforms that I will be handling. Going inside of the platforms to learn the current strategies they're using. Study the analytics data to learn where you are acquiring leads and traffic. See what's working, and what isn't. Start putting together a plan on what changes should be made, and why. 

&#x200B;

When you enter a new roll as a Digital Marketer, with a new company, you will have a \~2-3 month period that will be a "learning period" for lack of better term. It's almost impossible to enter a company and start "working" immediately.
Besides setting up my computer and programs, I talked to people that were important to the success of my efforts. Sales people for instance, then customer success. It gave me insights into our customers, prospects, what kind of people we target, and how we speak about our product. This was over the course of the first week, but started with that on day 1 too. 
First day was pretty much all admin (paper work, setting up computer, meeting co-workers and learning about the different teams and how they work together). After all that it was training on the systems/platforms used and shadowing colleagues to see what they did and how they did it. 

&#x200B;

I probably got my first assignment during my second week and it was replicating a report that from a month prior with updated data. From there things started to build up but first day and week were more geared to admin and training.
Setting up computer, and a training course.
First day is pretty much all about setup. After that, reading on-boarding documentation about any need-to-knows with regards to the work such as demographics, objectives, current channels, etc. and then just doing some research and gaining a better understanding of the product at hand.
Update information from webs which bring the value to apply for my work \^\^ 
create a data field in your email service provider that allows users to self-select in their data settings whether they prefer Spanish or Portuguese. add the data points to your signup forms and then create workflows in your email service provider that sorts the people who are signing up by the language they would prefer.once you have the data and workflows setup send emails that are both in Spanish and Portuguese asking which language the people prefer to receive emails in.
If they’re already on your mailing list then you could ask them to click a link inside the email to choose their language, and then tag them accordingly. 


[removed]
Count me in
I know exactly how you feel I was in the same boat, do you have any digital marketing meetups near you? 
I would say shoot for a cost you know is profitable. If you know you make money acquiring a customer for $75 then shoot for that.

Winging it is a good way to burn through cash you might not have. How many customers can you realistically afford to acquire at $300? Can you float the business with a good chunk of your money tied up in new customers?

Lifetime Value is a great metric, but something you should never guess at. I've seen folks lose substantial amounts of money because they fundamentally misunderstood the value of their customers.

I would say for a new business which doesn't/can't know an accurate LTV your ads are profitable if your monthly revenue generated by the ads is greater than your monthly ad spend. 

This may be conservative, but losing money is a tough proposition for all but the most well funded startups. 
You don't. You'll need another way of determining how much you should be spending. 
You rightly told..!!
I don’t think you should be spending $300 per signup yet, but on the flip side, if your paying customers are churning in less than 3 months I would solve that problem before pouring more gas on the fire.
I would like to take a different approach to the comments that have been put here. For Businesses starting out, looking at the ROAS will kill your development and long term growth. When starting out as a Startup or MVP Product of an SMB, your focus should be shifted from Hard  KPIs to SOFT KPIs: Lead conversion rate, time on page, bounce rates, churn rates, CPO and so on. Setup a 1-3 Year plan to reach a positive ROAS  


Rather then going on a rant I also want to give usable advice. Calculate your CPO (Cost per Order) on the base of your contribution margin. Specifically look at your contribution margin 1 and become profitable on that level.  


\# of Transactions / Total Marketing Cost = CPO  


Contribution Margin 1 = Unit Revenue - Unit Variable Cost  


Your Goal is to Reach a CPO that is lower than your contribution margin 1.   


Take your current CPO and set a goal CPO. Calculate the CPO on a Top Level and also on your different channels (adwords, facebook and others). Whilst optimizing your ads keep an eye on your CPO. We track this on a daily basis, especially if we have changes in running ads. If we see an upward trend we need to re-optimize. The longer your ads run the better they become and the algorithms can learn.  


Don't run in the dark, use the date you have.
for SEO purposes, try YOAST
Yes. Many. 
Plugins are for SEO purposes and SEO is a part of Digital Marketing.. Yoast helps to edit metatitle, metadescription and many other things.. W3 total cache, W3 super cache, Compress JPEG and PNG Images, etc.. There are so many plugins in wordpress, different ones for different tasks. 
Yoast is essential, many others vary but I like WP Fastest Cache and Redirection as well. There are so many plugins, but be careful on some as they can cause your site to slow down, affecting SEO. Usually it's those that have javascript to load
Variety of WordPress plugins are available in the market. Everything has its plugin has its own role. 
The answer depends. What are you looking for? Lead generation, abandonment recovery, SEO, A/B testing, affiliate link management... you'll find a lot of them in the WordPress plugin repository.
WordPress SEO by Yoast, SFDC Lead Generation, Broken Link Checker, Google XML Sitemaps many more.
Reddit as a source is a great place to find amazing stories, experiences and opinions from real people. If I’m a car company making an electric car, I wanna understand the consumer POV in detail on the ups and downs of a Tesla. I could look at Twitter, but that is short form, maybe too quippy, I could look at Facebook but really I can’t because they shut off their API, and their data that you can use is pretty shit, but if I look at the users on r/Tesla I can start understanding better because reddit is anonymous (or as anonymous as any given user wants it to be) and people will open up. You can start building your campaign, your product, your ad, your copy, etc around how these people actually discuss their passions and what they would have liked to see (grievances with functions of their Tesla for example)

If you can find ways to start understanding well X user is posting in r/Tesla and is also posting in Y subreddit, you can start gaining understanding of interest affinities. 

Flip this example on to health care, there are tons of subs that are specific to health conditions and communities to help people connect with others to better live with their condition. People don’t as openly talk about their health on other social media, especially not long form. 

Lol I could go on. I work with tech that uses reddit data and I think it’s super super valuable and a super rich data set , it’s just about how you frame your query and what you’re hoping to answer. 


It doesn’t have to be more valuable; most sites use data aggregators anyway so reddit will have access to much of the same data as google/Facebook.  It’s just a different option and when prices appropriately it works.
Reddit users are the least valued social users 

[article](https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.cnbc.com/amp/2019/02/11/reddit-users-are-the-least-valuable-of-any-social-network.html) 
Reddit users are quite different than other social media players. 
Why don’t you share where you read that , there’s an article for every field of study dying.
SEO can never die. Every business is going digital now. When I say everything, it literally means every business right from grocery shopping to buying a car. Every business wants to get to the top of google SERPs. And only SEO can take you there, be it technical or in content. It is here to stay. Rather, I would say, its only the start. So, go ahead, learn some new skills.
Recommend starting with PPC and Analytics first, then training in SEO, content marketing and organic social
SEO will never die as long as Google is around. 
Yes it’s dead. Move on.
If you hate public accounting, don’t get into marketing. 
I heard about this first time in 2010 that "SEO is dying". At that time I was new in this field and bit worried after reading such articles. After almost 10 years, based upon my experience I can firmly say that SEO will never die but keep evolving. Search keep growing with the passage of time and so is the Optimization process.

The techniques will keep on changing and remember that Google also want you to Optimize your website so that it can easily be crawled and accessible to the audience. So just don't worry about those articles. Interesting part of those articles is this that some people write about "SEO is dead" and then start to Optimize very same article and try to rank on top in Google :D isn't it funny?

&#x200B;

Type terms like "Google SEO" in search bar and you will find out starter guides provided by Google and also link of "Do you need an SEO". There is a video as well in which Google explains the importance of SEO and things to consider before hiring an SEO.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Links from Google: 

[https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/35291?hl=en](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/35291?hl=en)

[https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/7451184?](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/7451184?hl=en)

&#x200B;

P.s. And you will find many more such links where Google explains about SEO. Hope it will help you in getting better understanding.
SEO will never die, the best practices will likely shift as Google evolves and their auto-crawling system gets smarter.
It won't die but it can be outsourced, automated, or nothing at all. NO ONE KNOWS... The algorithm is constantly changing so anyone says anything definitive about SEO is completely full of it... IMO
SEO will not be die in the future also. It will remain in the world as long as the internet. 
There is usually a self-certification button that appears after this so you basically take all responsibility

Log into the ad manager and check to see if she is segmenting by age, gender, etc. I believe anything other than location will get it blocked. They are cracking down on that after the lawsuit they had. It’s seen as redlining 



I work for a national referral brokerage, we do a massive amount of SEO and SEM marketing.  I've also worked in Real Estate for most of the past decade.  Let me know what questions you have and I'm happy to help.
Agree with previous comment. Also the precise wording is a thing. For instance, here in the netherlands, you cannot use things like 'need a mortage?' 
Due to (fair) lawsuits over the last 4 yrs by orgs like the Natl Fair Housing Alliance, Facebook has cracked down on real-estate related ads. Like @bryanpool51 said, they want to prevent redlining & preferential lending. 

In addition to obvious targeting on sex, race and age, be careful about cultural affinity parameters. I.e. Targeting or omitting qualities that indirectly lead to preferential audiences

It’s a fine line between creating a targeted audience & a discriminatory one, so you may want to create multiple ad groups to test-and-learn. 
i just got hired by a construction company that builds houses to do all their digital marketing. I wonder how this will affect the campaigns...
You can use Tag Manager to set up certain events (clicks on certain elements, filling and sending forms, etc) and push those into analytics, then make a conversion out of an event and import that into adwords. That's the gist of it. I personally really like tag manager and spending a few days to really get the tool has helped the agency a lot, since you're a lot more flexible in your event tracking and don't need to call up the programmers for every little thing.
Tag manager is the bucket to GA and Ads rocks—everything fits in the manager and the manager fits in your site so you don't have extra pieces of code to fire from the backend. 
So I've heard it both ways. I personally like importing goals into Adwords, it just simplifies the process. For phone call clicks and the like, I'm happy to use an event, but even then you need to use Analytics goals.

My manager likes using the GTM conversion tracking code just because Analytics reports conversions on a last non-direct click basis, so sometimes partial or even full conversion credit isn't given to Adwords. Of course, you can always view the difference in the Model Comparison Tool, but to each their own.

And you generally don't need to worry about doubletracking. I don't remember the specifics of what I read, but I was worried about the same thing before reading an article that explained it well. Something about gclid's only being able to register a single source on the cookie, or something like that. 
Tag Manager is a tool to easily manage all tracking pixels and conversion code. I’d recommend deploying all tracking tags (analytics, bing uet, facebook pixel, etc) through GTM whenever possible. This makes it so you can manage tracking code without roping in developer resources.

For Google Ads vs. Analytics conversion actions - the difference between the two is attribution models. In Analytics standard reports, goal completions are credited to the last interaction only. There could be 12 clicks to your website but Analytics will give 100% of the credit to the final one.

If somebody clicks on a search ad, than navigates directly to the website tomorrow and converts, this conversion won’t be sent to Google Ads (if you are importing GA goals) because Analytics will assign this conversion to Direct rather than Paid Search. 

Conversely, if you are using Google Ads attribution, the standard attribution model is last Google Ads click. This means that Google Ads will take 100% of the credit for the conversion even if they were just 1 out of a 100 clicks leading to the conversion. Somebody could click on an search ad, subscribe to your email list, click on a Facebook ad, click on an organic search listing, click on an email, and then finally convert and Google Ads would report this as a conversion attributed to the first ad click.

This is probably not doing it justice and I’m ignoring some of the alternative reports and attribution models you can use in Ads and Analytics. I suggest doing some additional reading on attribution models and customer journeys. I think most SEM marketers prefer Google Ads conversion tracking tags because it usually means their campaigns still get credited in Google Ads reporting even if the ad wasn’t the final click.

However, instead of jumping on Google Ads last click attribution, I recommend doing some research into your funnel and seeing what conversion paths your customers generally take. This will give you a better idea on which attribution model to select and how to value your campaigns.

Additionally, if you use Google Ads conversion tracking tags I would not freak out if Google Ads / Analytics don’t match each other 100%. If the attribution models are different, of course the reports will be different.
On campaign level under settings check what are the languages that are being targeted
I turn off mobile completely.

Google doesn't let you filter out mobile apps any more (they changed that a few months ago).

So much fraud on the mobile apps, apps just built for click fraud. Even worse, they'll fake convert just so they can get more ads to click fraud.

I've talked to Google reps and they don't care. 
When it comes to mobile apps (like the calculator) CTR is high since people click it by mistake scrolling or trying to close the ad. You'll probably have really high bounce rates and if you're tracking landing page loads these will likely be a lot lower than the number of clicks. 
You’re smart to be skeptical of bad sites/apps, bots, etc. And It’s not just a GDN phenomenon. Good marketers are the ones paying attention and constantly updating their exclusions. Don’t expect any ad tech platform to protect you — be proactive.
Short answer, yes. Can't rely on Google whatsoever to eliminate waste. 
Yes, because of some mobile apps Google is struggling with clickfraud on its display network.
It really depends on what track you want to go down in the beginning.

If you are purely just now diving into digital marketing with almost no experience, I would encourage you to try free courses to get comfortable with all things marketing to start talking the language by the time April hits.

I know Hubspot offers a free inbound marketing certification course (I had my new hire take the course). After that then you can go down different paths depending on what you're most comfortable with (the goal is to be well-rounded by the end and tackle courses that you are uncomfortable with). These would range from content writing (blogs, PR, organic social media posting, KOLs, etc), paid ads (learning the backends of Adwords and Facebook Business), graphic design (how to make those eye catching images to push conversion), lead management (learn how to LQ, nurture and segment), everything SEO, email marketing, and landing page/email template design (get comfortable with drag and drop as well as CSS and HTML).

This would be a good place to start.
>Bonus; whats it like starting fresh with Digital Marketing and how can I work to the best of my abilities whilst being unqualified and completely new to it all?

I've started giving this piece of advice to anyone that I know just getting started....and I really believe it. You shouldn't be afraid of "Starting fresh" in this industry because everything is always changing. Learn the best practices build on them, and constantly try new things - because that's the name of the game. Try, Test, Try, Test, Try, Test. Imposter syndrome shouldn't exist, because you should always be one step outside of your comfort zone.

Work to the best of your abilities by being a good writer, communicator, and being able to look at the big picture. In the meantime, I'd agree about taking the hubspot certification course to get a crash-course on best practices. 
I’m looking for a digital marketer to work with if you want “experience” if you’re interested!
just do it.  watch 400 youtube video...pick a niche and sell...
[removed]
Nice Post!!
Start working on getting AdWords certification. You’ll learn all the basic digital marketing concepts and if you show up to work on day 1 already certified your boss should be impressed. Not that certification is the be all end all but it’s a good way to learn the UI inside out. 
Are you using a marketing automation platform? in most cases the platform training modules are a great foundation source of resources.  Salesforce trailhead for example will give you what you need, but it is relevant to how Salesforce works.
Not sure if it is applicable but the google store, where you buy merch & gadgets allows free access to their analytics. Years of ecommerce data at your disposal.
First go on domain & hosting website and buy website & hosting to test marketing strategy.
Ok so there's 2 ways here:

1. You do it in your own account and they need to fund your spend. The advantage here is you keep the knowledge of the ads that were set up, the disadvantage is that you may have to chase the client for their ad spend;
2. You do it in their account (the client gives you access to their business manager as an advertiser). In this case their account should already be connected to their bank account or credit card so you won't have to spend your own money on ads. The setback here is that after you've done the heavy lifting of campaign setup and are now getting results the client can cut ties with you and keeps the campaigns in their account, so you lose leverage there;
It can be self learned. Online is just another medium with many different vehicles you can use to reach out to audiences.

&#x200B;

Here are the core competency areas:

&#x200B;

Marketing psychology (what makes consumers buy and how to create ads that sell)

Copywriting

Email marketing

Display advertising

PPC ads

ecommerce

Social Media (FB, Youtube, Reddit, Twitter, Insta)

Conversion optimization

UI / UX

&#x200B;

Basic knowledge of how web development works will allow you to properly manage web designers and developers to create sites that sell.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Depend upon your qualification, knowledge. If you have degree you can find job easily. But if you want to do without degree than u have to put some efforts and work hard practically.
No.

&#x200B;
No, if you're a fast learner and ready to process and employ tons of information of any kind. In my company, there are two digital marketing guys without a degree and they are doing really well, always full of uncommon ideas. But they had to work very hard to make their way at the beginning of the career. 
Yes it helps but if when we stuck into some step, there is no to tell us how to solve it, than we need an trainer. You can also download all courses file from torrent, if u want to get free course like udemy
Search what? Find out they’re metrics? Or targeting strategy? Or just find the creative used? 


Unmetric will allow you to examine dark posts from a competitor set. But as of a few months ago I think it was just twitter. I think they're trying to add other platforms like fb and insta
What's your current role and goal?

If you're ops or campaign side you could get away with being an expert in one or two.

Broadly? Omni channel is the future. There are a half dozen major channels that could draw your attention: Email, Search, Social, Display, Video and Native that could draw your attention and dozens of tactics and campaign types within each of those. 
If you want to specialize hard in PPC/SEM kind of stuff, know about every channel. Spend extra time in the ones you think will be most useful for whatever you’re doing. My advice might’ve been different a couple years ago, but now it’s omnichannel.. diversified. 100% 
I recommend specializing but most recruiters think you should know everything in PPC. 🙄
As a marketer, I would suggest you dabble at all of them but specialize in only one. Because it is hardly realistic to become an expert in all of them. And also micro is the new thing. 
When you're marketing anything, there is one platform that will bring you the largest portion of your traffic. It's different for different businesses. Some find Twitter useful. For some, Instagram is their biggest traffic converter. So, you gotta find what's your "thing" and be an expert in it. 
It depends on the role and level of activity / time required etc.

Eg one company might need a full time Google PPC specialist where as others would be fine with having a general paid specialist who operates over multiple channels.

Generally, it’s good to know multiple channels. 
You should try every channel whether it is FB, Google and, Amazon. After having a practical experience in all these channels. You can pick any one of this to be a specialist. I would not recommend you to be good only at one in the early days of your career. 
You should know about all digital marketing channels. It gives you a well rounded view. But it's impossible for anyone to become an expert on all of these. 

Each channel is unique and has many different aspects. The channels are constantly changing and evolving. There are new channels coming up every few months. So it's physically impossible to stay on top of every channel and become an expert. 

Having said that, you should try to become really good at more than one channel. I am recommending this for two reasons 

* It makes you more valuable and less likely to become obsolete if the channel goes down in popularity 
* Learning related channels makes you more effective at all of them

Let me illustrate with an example. Think about someone who focused only on Twitter 3 years ago when it was near its peak. If that person did not become really good at other social media like Insta or FB, he will be out of demand today as Twitter has become less attractive to businesses. 

So you should learn about all and then go deeper with 2-3 related ones you find most exciting. 
The market definitely wants specialists/experts, that's where the hard skills are. I'd say focus in SEM because that's the most complex or RTB as it's the most recent and therefore not as much competition to get a job. The rest you can learn easily and it's a good plus. Big companies will hire a specialist for each channel while small companies will want someone that can do a little bit of everything so that's also something that you can factor in your decision.
100% yes.  It provides a couple of things to you:  First, you get a broader knowledge of marketing, which is far more helpful whether you are a single channel manager or a multi-channel manager.  Second, it provides you a ton more career choice.  If you choose to only do PPC, I sure hope you are going to love it the rest of your life as without knowledge of how the other channels work, you will be stuck.  Sort of on the other side, if you don't try other channels, how do you know what you like and don't like?  And third, people may disagree with this which is fine, but the world is moving toward more omni-channel right now.  Automation is forcing execution of individual channels away and more toward overarching strategy roles - which require broader thinking (totally understand there is some debate around this, but if you look at the trends of taking in-house, consulting companies buying agencies, agency holding companies trying to build consulting practices, and brands hiring for ecom, they tend to point in this direction).  Learn every channel as much as you can.  You can provide exponentially more value by knowing some of all channels than being an expert in just one (note: this doesn't apply to life, just digital marketing).
It’s better to know something about every channel than to only ever work within one channel. That’s called being siloed and it’s the best way to never advance. Being curious and willing to get outside your comfort zone is so important. You don’t have to know every detail about every channel but general familiarity is goood. 
I got into digital marketing via politics. I knew a few platforms really well and when I launched my own business, I set out to learn "all of them." Quickly realized I was never going to be passionate about some (aka Pinterest) and while I try to have a general overarching understanding of the different platforms, I decided to focus in and be great at a few things, rather than okay at a lot of things. So far, it's been the right strategy for me.
it depends. if you are working in a small sized company, you need to have knowledge about all these different platforms. but in a big sized companies, usually each of these platforms are run by one or more digital marketing experts, experts specialized in that platform. So, first decide where you want to work and then make your knowledge general or special.
[removed]
I have next to no knowledge about digital marketing, but I would say it's good to know a bit of each, and really focus on one and make it your specialty and area of expertise.
Bing provides an interesting opportunity because it's less competitive and therefore less expensive. 
I’d also recommend Yahoo Gemini. Depending on the target market Bing and Yahoo can get you some pretty strong results. There’s not a lot of volume compared to Google but both search engines cater to older and slightly more affluent consumers.
**Search---**

Google Search 

YouTube 

Bing Search 

Google shopping

Bing shopping 

Gmail ads 


**Social---**

Facebook w/ dynamic feed based retargeting 

Instagram 

Snapchat 

Yelp

Twitter 

LinkedIn 

**Programmatic--**

Display banners

Dynamic feed based display 

Native-- click in and click out 

Roku, Hulu, DirectTV now, pluto TV, Samba 

Pandora/Spotify

**Email--**

Non curated Subscriber lists 

Multi layered targeting emails-- national lists 

Custom site automation 

**Classified--**

Programmatic solution to syndicate resumes across dozens of job sites

----

Let me know if you need help with any of these. We run them all and more. Often for smaller agencies who need help on any of the above or have the margin to outsource. 
In the paid course you can actually setup the ads campaigns if your own. 
Keep in mind that 90% of such courses are nothing but regurgitated basics from the original sources. True experts also do offer paid courses which usually cost much more but contain useful well-structured tips and a lot of practice. I suggest completing courses by Google first and then keeping an eye on real pros (not random $50 courses) who share info for free. Before paying for any course conduct a research (ask people for real reviews, ) and take another month to decide.
Oh fuck yes - can't speak for the google side, but Facebook Blueprint basically gives you an understanding of how their ads work, it doesn't actually teach you how to run good ads that will create ROI.  


Forget udemy - pay proper money for a proper course from someone who is currently doing it well (i.e Cat Howell, Tim Burd...)

&#x200B;
A job doing grunt work for a mentor.
Promo & bitable but none of these stock sites come close to professional video production and if you are working for a bigger company amateur stock videos like these can actually deteriorate the brand's image but for small businesses it's a great option to get out there!
Wave.video
And
powtoon
Headliner
Pixteller is just like Canva, but you can animate any element in the design. Similar to how Adobe Flash was back in the days.
Typito
If you are looking to start your own agency, make sure that your true love is doing sales and client management. 

Knowing the details of digital marketing is not nearly enough. 
Everyone thinks working for themselves is just this easy and it rarely is. Getting clients... let alone clients on Upwork is hard. Those with good reviews on Upwork get a lot of the work and starting from scratch is not easy. Managing a business is not easy. Get some more experience and focus on getting better at your craft before starting a company. Both a drop ship store and an ad agency are going to require work you don't do now from back office, HR, admin, legal and other areas of the business that someone else takes care of for you.
From what ive studied, even though dropshipping is not as sustainable in the long run, if you get a successful campaign going with the right product, you can keep running retargeting ads, sit back, and let the money flow in for months until you have to find a new product. 

I guess if you can get the routine down, dropshipping has a way better return on your time (you can automate a lot of the customer service process by outsourcing) and its pretty lucrative right now. Tons of cheap/free information on youtube and affordable course sites like Udemy.  

Just my 2 cents, best of luck bro!
There isn't one for Pinterest since it's only been taking off the last few years. 
Turn on campaigns, get conversions and revenue. Continue until you have enough data to build LAL and grow your business. 
I suggest you take a course or Facebook Blueprint or something before asking. Pixel's don't depend on the niche and it's actually used for tracking conversion.
You’re using WordPress or other CMS? 
Either share your website or your online customer journey so that specific feedback can be given.
Not a whole lot to go on here so take this with a grain of salt:

General rule is to have the standard PageView pixel on every page of your business’ website so you can track customer activity based on what pages they’re viewing.

If you’re trying to track leads from a landing page, you’ll need to add the Standard Event code on the thank you page.

I don’t know much about the real estate industry but I imagine that if you’re creating audiences for ad campaigns, you could track users that are viewing certain home listings and then serve them ads of similar listings (same area, price, etc.). A campaign like that would take a while to setup and would likely be unnecessary, but the possibilities are interesting.
A Facebook Pixel is a piece of code that lives in the HTML on your website. It's actually rather easy to install, there are a lot of videos online explaining how to do so, but Facebook Blueprint is going to be your best resource in learning how to do it without any errors. To answer the second part of your question, you can upload your sales as a CSV. file to the Offline Events section of Facebook. You'll need the customers name, email, phone number or another identifier that Facebook can use to match it to a profile. Once this file is uploaded you can view how many of your customers viewed or engaged with your ads, (and which campaign/adset/ad,) and went on to buy from you.
To me, a digital marketing progression imho: 1. has experience in developing, creating, and managing individual digital marketing platforms (adwords/fb, etc) to achieve a variety of outcomes 2. 1 + analyzing the data from those campaigns to improve them 3. 1+2 + Finds cross platform opportunities between them to achieve cross functional outcomes 4. 1+2+3+ uses the sum of their experiences to understand how digital marketing works on an individual level & cross platform level, eliminating nimieties. 5. Digital marketing strategist can deliver on 1-4 to almost any business
As for some suggestions, Yes, a lot comes down to data, but a strategist looks at logic, which is rhetorical math. I've been doing this for 4 years, and I graduated with a degree in philosophy. It helps break down the abstract/concrete and how they support each other, and how they differ. Everyone learns /what to think/ with a marketing degree.  You already know a lot of that, and if you don't go take FB Blueprint or whatever course. But in the real world, you need to learn /how to think/. You have good experience. But to me the time spent doing something is irrelevant (in most cases). 2 months managing 250k in ad spend for me may be more than 6 month of someone managing 25k. So stress the importance of the work you did.  This is all my opinion. I can't tell you anyone is right or wrong. I just know what works for me! Keep up the good work
To establish skills for a digital strategist role, Go buy digital marketer lab plus. It comes with a legit course in every digital marketing subject, and to be a strategist you need an understanding of everything.

PS I don’t work in the corporate world so I can’t speak for that, I run my own business, but that’s what I’d hire when it comes to hiring a digital marketing strategist
I run marketing for a pizza catering company and our best marketing efforts have been 1. SEO 2. Google Ads 3. Social retargeting. In that order. 


Step one identify the client's pain points and business goals. 

Two, if required build the client a proper way to track marketing efforts (pixels installed, track conversions into a CRM, ensure the POS allows for taking voucher codes etc). 

Three, create a campaign with transparent budgets and goals.

Four, launch, test, learn. repeat and be prepared to report. 


Social converts suck.
Foster reviews.
Be special. 
Online ordering, kick ass service.

Marketing is mostly about having operational excellence and retention of acquired business. 

Retarget ads and google ads to get initial burst of business, along with high profile catering. 

Listen to the customers not social chatter. 

It’s 2019 after Fred Algorithm open your wallet for traffic or do it the honest way by being excellent.
Get a basic, but super-dialed website. Ensure Online directory listings are pristine. Aggregate lots of amazing Google reviews. Ratargeting ads on Google and FB/IG.

Curveball: Facebook events every weekend.
Source/medium is important (make sure all traffic is UTM tagged!)

Gather data on the webpages people are visiting 

Gather data about the audience- where they came from, what they did, and their characteristics. 
> ...and interpreting the reports as quickly as possible...  

This can't be learned by reading, only by doing.
Do you mind giving us a salary ballpark? Congratulations!!
CXL has s great course on GA, pricey though . 
Learn data studio!
Do you know how long it takes for digital teams to develop a banner ad or a web page or create an app, etc?
I've been a digital coordinator for 5 months for a national company with 90 locations. I can give you advice, are you working in house or for an agency? 
Depends on the agency. In some agencies, a marketing co-ordinator is little more than an admin assistant that schedules tasks and ensures follow ups. In other agencies you may be expected to be very hands on with the work. It will depend on what kind of team you're working with. 

I think most importantly you have agency experience - that's the distinction that sets you apart from an office admin. You would have some understanding of the agency workflow and how to go about looking after campaigns, how the creative and content generation process works, etc. 

If I was employing a marketing co-ordinator, I would just want someone who seems organised, is prepared to learn and can juggle tasks, and also won't just sit there waiting for something to do but will chase clients up and keep things moving. Also someone who presents well and seems like they could hold their own in front of clients. 

Definitely get the certs, they're easy and (in my opinion) more valuable to a potential employer at this level than a marketing degree. 

In short, pay attention to the job specs and stress your ability to manage workloads and display excellent personal presentation, client-facing skills and working with a team. A marketing co-ordinator type role is a good entry-level role for someone who wants to go into digital and wear a number of different hats. 

I cut my teeth being a co-ordinator. It's a good entry level role. You can go for big agencies where it will be more gruelling and competitive but possibly teach you at a higher level, or you can go for small agencies and learn how to do lots of different types of marketing at once.
I hate these. My advice is to remember or maybe list what about your skills and background you want to show with these presentations. Don’t get stuck in the weeds and waste your time on parts that won’t be as relevant to your scope in the position.

Make sure you’re not losing sight of what it is you want to convey (or better yet- what they are looking for): you’re a strong presenter, your thoughts and content are organized and appealing, you have a basic knowledge of the practices your team will be executing, you can think creatively about where to find opportunities for your client and communicate them clearly. You know the process.

You could make up a specific fake client here, I’m thinking. Or one very clearly based on one of their current clients if they have one that matches the criteria. Then you can get really specific about audiences and opportunities without the risk of being too generalized and failing to show your skills for strategy.

Hope that helps. Good luck! 
Start with the KPIs, and detail the ways you'll get there.
This sounds like free consulting more than an interview.
There are free Google ad videos that google supplies. 

Have a variety of ads to test. Link google analytics to Adsense 
\-Publish Content Regularly(fresh & unique)

\-Target high CPC keywords(Use "Keywords Everywhere" - Free Chrome extension)

\-Share post or article on social media

\-Create quality backlinks

\-Now Google allow 5 different sized ads per page :) - Increase ads boxes= increase pages views =increase Clicks
Hi, thanks for this. Just sent you a mail.
Interested
Can you DM me more information? I can send you an email but would prefer to see if the opportunity would be mutually beneficial before sharing personal information. Thank you!
Do you think your company would let you work remotely? I had a friend in advertising in a similar situation. She asked her job if she could move to a different state and work remotely, and they agreed. Doesn’t hurt to ask. 
I personally am in Florida so it's hard to speak on behalf of LA. From what I know, LA has a lot of great opportunities for digital marketing jobs. Starting looking and see what jobs are available that fit your skill sets. Work with a recruiter ... if you are lucky, the company may be willing to help you with relocation. 
May have something for you. Messaging ya
Politics is a very controversial topic. I try to avoid them because it may deter other clients away who support opposing parties etc. Depends on where you live but in the country where I live no matter how much it pays I stay out of it.
I did a good one. Created a website like a form where you choose differents options and at the end I told you which one you should vote. It got viral 
Another one, with web scrapping and AI I recover every interest of any post on any social media and then remarketing each topic
Digital marketing for a political figure isn't really that far from digital marketing for your products. I mean, its like selling, but now your advertising for someone. So the basics still apply. 
I have helped a handful of candidates with digital marketing (website, social media, content strategy/automation, advertising, and video townhall with streaming). There are plenty of things that are similar, like u/smiley44 says but there are unique challenges. Candidates were harder to manage (scripts/talking points, etc.) than brands and the level of interaction is AMAZING with both supporters and random public who want to troll/fight/disparage/derail your communications.

Only two of these candidates spent money on polling but honestly the audience metrics were just as predictable. I like the pacing but the politics of it were a struggle. 

It helps to be a bit detached; still committed but separate your ego/heart from the results. Get a contract signed for commissions/decisions/fees. Oh, make sure you have a relationship with the campaign treasurer if you don't want to get stuck with unpaid bills!

Just my $0.02.
One of the good tool for political figure must use it by using every platform to engage with public 
Follow the basic rules of Brand Marketing and treat the person as brand while doing marketing. It will help you to perform better. For example, I did some for myself in 2017 and yet the results are still there. If you open google and type Ravi Kumar Rana then you can find almost all of my profile link on first page of google and my blog which I recently set up in October, is ranking on 1st position. 
Read up on Blue State Digital, that was the company behind the super successful digital marketing campaign for Obama. They even have a TED talk about some of the stuff they did.
How would it be different from any other kind of SEO?
The only way to get that info, to my knowledge is to sign up for their newsletter and watch what comes in. It’s not a terrible business idea to set up automation to do this, but most businesses probably aren’t smart enough to look for a service like that or understand the value, so your top line would probably be very limited.
Get all the free ones before you pay for certifications.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps

&#x200B;
I'd say nothing beats hands-on experience.

&#x200B;

Does anyone you know have a small trade/business with a website? Ask if they can let you have a go at putting what you've learnt on the free certs into practice.

&#x200B;

When you get to interview stage, demonstrable experience will boost your advantage massively - especially if you've got tangible results off the back of it.

&#x200B;

Hope this helps - good luck.
Facebook Blueprint maybe? Depends how you want to build your profile, going more into paid or organic.
I started from a super technical area of digital marketing which is PPC and SEO - and later on i added more design and web development. Pretend that tomorrow you have your own business and you need to get started - what would llearn first? I would look into Web Dev on wordpress - templates - CSS HTMl - then get Certified by Google in Search and Analytics. Then go to [MOZ.com](https://MOZ.com) and read the entire PDF on SEO.  After that I would get into sales funnels and email marketing. The last thing I would do is social media marketing and content marketing. But all digital marketing is is creating costumer journeys so you can get their email and build an emailing list so you can monetize it.
You could consider keeping with the content side and getting in via enterprise content management as well. Look at something like Adobe Experience Manager and focus on helping to drive individualized content in the customer journey...

Just a thought on how to leverage you existing experience.
I think Graphic Design is a part of Digital Marketing. Without the assets (ad images, landing pages, web design), Digital Marketing will not yield results.
You can use your "creative" aspect to market yourself in Digital Marketing. Show them examples of your work and the results the business achieved.
Want a job? Lol!
Where can we see your portfolio?
Nope. Never do the page thing. It messes with your custom audience and organic reach.

Likes and comments on your post is good though. 
Sounds like they either need an entry-level team member in brand marketing or they don't know what brand marketing is or they're full of shit.
Start by building a website and then bringing users onto it and then growing it.

I can give you specific pointers, but honestly, the best way to learn would be to get started, stumble on a problem, find a solution, and then carry on.

It will also make a bigger contribution to your CV than some certificate.
I work at a digital agency so I hire people for all kinds of roles all the time and 100% of them are self-taught. 

Where you start sort of depends on what you want to do. If you want to be a developer, start a website. Wordpress is a good place to start -- not too basic but not too challenging either. There are lots of decent free resources for learning to code, like CodeAcademy, etc.

If you want to be a media manager, start looking into getting Google Adwords certified. They have lots of good resources and the certificate program is just a good structure.

No matter what I'd recommend starting getting into Google Analytics. There's a certificate but I'd probably start with blogs and resources before the cert program.
I like Rick Mulready's podcast The Art of Paid Traffic. He offers guides and coaching, but you can start only by listening to the episodes. Search the archive for older episodes. Some are good stories by successful and not so successful digital marketeers. If you are just starting out, you will learn a lot from both. Also a big part of digital marketing is creativity. Try to find inspiration on copy, photography and design. Check the portfolio of successful digital marketing agencies like Wieden + Kennedy. 
Digital Marketing is not the domain for the tech only. It is a myth. Anyone with passion for creativity, and numbers can learn Digital Marketing. Concourse, it takes time to perfect any art.
Start with learning the different verticals of Digital Marketing- email marketing, social media marketing, paid search, and so on.
Courses, like those from Udemy or somewhere else, are useful, But until you implement the theory, you will not have a command over the subject.
As "anotherbozo" said, start with a website. The website need not be perfect. Use it to experiment digital marketing tactics.
Don't use Wix as a site. When I ran recruitment ads and even now as I consultant as a PPC recruiter for clients. They use Google ads, and job boards to find new people to fill roles. HR & recruitment is a people business and thus it's all about who you know. You can do some nice ad on LinkedIn but you need to know those brands are looking to hire.
Imho this segment is too competitive. Everyone will be curious about how do you avoid conflict of interest.
It would be best to do some A/B testing. Try out different button text, see which one results in more conversions. Subscribe, Buy Now, Purchase, Take My Money, Submit - all possibilities. 
It begins with "Get Started" or "Register", perhaps end with "Finish Registration" to complete the loop (psychologically). 

Do you have the traffic to A/B test different texts and button colors?
Install Google Optimize.

A/B test two different versions of text on the button - don’t make “clicking” the button your success metric; make finishing checkout the success metric.

Pick a winner, make that the A leg of another A/B test.

Repeat.

A lot of people fall for the click through fallacy when in fact you want to make the real goal your goal (ie get money).

It’s quite possible that Buy Now gets lower click through because low intent users don’t click it; however it can also still be true that Buy Now gets more money in your pocket because it moves people further down the funnel and the middle intent users end up more committed after clicking it vs some “nicer” worded button.

[edit: read more] try “take my money!” Too!!! It doesn’t hurt, you just don’t want to test too many splits at a time if you have low total traffic because it will take forever to reach significance.
Why not look at what other major SaaS brands do? We have worked on tons of SaaS brands and they all use something different. A/B test what some of the best do with their signup flow.
I've had success with things like "get my tickets" and " give me my X" type language that emphasizes what they are getting by paying. But the only answer is throw a bunch of options out there and test them all.
Pay and [future action related to the service/product]. For example if the service is a designing tool it could read Pay and Start Designing. This is completely hypothetical, but I believe that reminding the customer about the service/product they are getting in the same caption might help to reduce or cancel any doubt/pain experienced just before clicking 
Click Here
Do you have a degree or experience?
What company and what certifications do you have? I'm also from the NW Chicago suburbs looking to break into this field

Glassdoor says that the salary range for this posituon in Chicago is $41-$91k with a $61k average.
It's hard to make salary requests without substantial hands-on experience nonetheless I would ask for a 3 month performance review and that should give you leverage depending on your work ethic  and level of commitment. Put yourself in the employers shoes and think of something reasonable. Also remember that they're paying you  to train you whether it's directly or indirectly and those skills will carry over to the next company or your own projects or both.
IMHO, you’re kind of in a tough spot. I’d suggest going through the process and then asking them how they define success in the role. Once they define it, ask if you have demonstrated your path to achieving that success and what the value of that is to the company.

Either that, or just say you’d like $500k, drop the mic and stare at them until they respond :)
I've been in your exact position, eerily - also int he NW Suburb of Chicago. They gave me $34,000 at an eight-person company, I was their first marketing hire. $34-36 is realistic.
When i was working at an agency i used mailchimp too and my first tests were going to the junk too.

Here are some points you might want to check / optimize that maybe can helps

1. Your email size
2. The subject line
3. Image (embedded or linked)
4. Your text is also important, some words are detected by mail software or antivirus and are classified as junk/spam.

&#x200B;

just try to play with those and see how the tests are being handled.

Hope this helps.
I understand your frustration. Sadly, many of us have been on that boat where emails don't end up in the right folder.

First, let me address some of the most common reasons why an email could land in the un-friendly zone, aka, spam.

Do I have your permission?
This is perhaps the biggest reason why emails are spammed. 
Did your recipients subscribe to your email?
Please ensure you send emails to subscribers.
The CAN SPAM law is pretty strict.

Fishy IP Address:
You know how they say, a bad record on your license can take a long time to go away?
If your IP Address was used for spam in the past, this could choke your current email metrics as well.

Low Open Rates:
Check your email metrics, and see the trend of your Open Rates. A consistently low open rates can kind of “suggest” the email providers to move to spam.

Low Mailbox Usage:
Check the ratio of active to inactive email accounts on your list.
Mailbox providers weigh in this aspect as well during their spam filtering process.
Try not sending emails to dormant email accounts- emails that have not been active for a long time.

Misleading Subject Lines:
Don’t promise the stars in your subject line. Be genuine!

Missing Physical Address:
Don’t breach the CAN-SPAM Act.
Ensure you add your physical address to the email.


Words Dear to Spam folder:

Steer clear of words such as amazing, dear friend, free, promise you, risk free, this is not spam, for only $, guaranteed or order now.

These words can lead your emails to the Spam folder.


Now, coming back to your question about tools to send “bulk” emails.

I’d still recommend not to send Bulk emails. Batch and Blast is a bad idea.

Try segmenting your email lists to make it smaller, and cleaner.

You can look for Bigg Mass Mailer, which is a free tool for generating mass mailings. 

Another such tool is called e-Campaign. It  is a full featured mass Email tool.

Hope that helps!
Shashank

Hey I don't know how your mails are going to spam but mailchimp is supposed to be one of the best out there when it come to email marketing. Try sending it out in Batches. If that does not work contact their support team.
So can you check the deliverability and spam rating on your company's domain? I wonder if your company email domain is on a bunch of blacklists. Problem is that if your company uses one single domain to send thousands of emails, overtime as they start bouncing, being marked spam, or being suppressed it hurts your deliverability. I would suggest that once you check out those metrics, and to possibly get a subdomain just for your team to use?
Others already provided great tips. But there is another one why your email might land in the spam folder.

If your email domain name start with something like support@ or info@ then email providers like Gmail will send them into spam.

You can try something like hello@ or {first\_name}@.
Is your sending IP good? You might have been blacklisted for some reason or another. Make sure you're sending from a good email address too.
Make sure: 

You have a domain email address/paid email address

You aren’t using gmail yahoo etc.

You don’t have a bunch of links on cold emails

Text emails convert higher because they don’t go to promotions tabs 

You have a physical address at the bottom of your email

They are subscribed to your email list
Your email's subject line is one of the crucial reason to make your email a spam. That's why you have to focus on your email subject. Don't make it too promotional for your users. Apart from the subject line, you should focus on your email body, try to make your email body personalized as per your users.
Hey there - the reputation that's associated with your sending IP is going to determine whether it lands in spam or not. My recommendation would be to implement a new mailer system (SendInBlue is good), and get on an incremental send volume strategy. My company does this sort of stuff. Feel free to PM me if you'd like to speak.
Yo.. welcome to the frustrating world of email marketing :o

First.. Your domain is blacklisted, not your IP.  If you're using mailchimp I assure you the IPs in their sending pool are clean w/ good rep. What to do? Either take the time and effort to get off the blacklist or just grab a new domain and start mailing again.

Second.. Stop using mailchimp. I'm assuming you're trying to do affiliate marketing. While you may get by for a while, eventually they will shut your account down. They do NOT like affiliate marketers on their ESP and even say so in their terms.

Thrid.. 100/150 bounces means you obviously bought some shitty list that was old or scraped. Stop that. This is a business so treat it that way. Either start building your own list or buy a quality list from a reputable seller.

Take care of these 3 things and then you can worry about inboxing.
Spam on what provider? Gmail will inevitably end up in promotions. Either way, don’t worry. People check “spam” regardless of it being a filter just to make sure they didn’t miss anything. If it’s worthwhile, they will see it. 
Not digital marketing itself, but some repetitive tasks as creating dozens of ads, A/B tests etc.

The natural path is automation as it is already happening. As the time gets by, it will get easier and easier to anyone create an ad. I mean, social media and search engines companies make profit from ads. It has to be easier so more people (and robots) can do.

The strategy and creative decisions will still be on human hands (I hope so). But I guess we will see the number of jobs going down soon.

In the end we are all fucked :)
Let me explain you why Google Ads are becoming easier and easier to setup because there are lots of ads platforms in the world. Even some of them provides the better ROI than Google ads. Therefore Google Ads is facing competition from these platforms. To overcome this competition Google is now creating their ads platform easier than ever. So that anyone can use Google ads to run their online promotion.

Now get back to your question is this the end of digital marketing agencies? My answer is no because not everyone in the world is having the effective copy writing skills. Digital marketing agency is filled with copywriters who write an amazing and effective copy for the Google ads. That's why it is nearly impossible that innovation in Google ads will replace the digital marketing agencies.
For agencies that focus a single channel, maybe. If your agency is focused on omni channel campaigns, I think there will be even more competition and need for agencies to oversee.
No, it’s not the end. Because business owners (b2c) want to run their business. That’s why they hire agencies to handle all digital 
Tell me if you know a client that will allow Google Ads to run their whole campaign and I'll leave this industry right now 
Actually i would argue that it will open the door for more agencies to operate and lower costs for the costumer making it more affordable for everyone
The cost of an employee to manage AdWords to the same level that an agency would, I believe would be more expensive. 

I’m high up in the digital marketing world, yet we still outsource our Google AdWords for our business for convenience. There is better areas I and the rest of my team could spend our time on 

There may be a small shift, but in the overall spectrum I do not think this will be a massive impact to digital marketing agencies bottom line 
Yes, agency margins on media will definitely continue to shrink.  However, there is still a serious need for many other digital marketing channels 
Moz has no control over your website. It's simply a 3rd party tracker that tries to guess, as best as it can, how Google views your site.  
Don't stress. They've (for the most part) just re-optimized so link manipulators don't have as high a score. As a result, DA seems to have dipped somewhat across the board. They go into this in depth on their blog, and cover the average DA dips for different categories of websites. The only way this truly affects anyone is that if they:

1. Use Moz's DA as a reporting/success factor in your reports, which you probably shouldn't be doing anyways.
2. Are in the business of building/flipping domains/link services for (likely blackhat) SEO purposes, and use mid-high DA to get sales.

Google does not care about your DA score, and you'll see no changes on your site or rankings.
No you don't need to take it too serious. But remember that before MOZ 2.0 release, Moz was showing the high DA even of low quality sites. But with MOZ 2.0 it is providing the low DA of low authority sites and high DA of high authority sites.
If you're pulling bulk amounts of data, it will freeze up the platform thinking that you're a bot. Went back and forth with support for about two days to figure this out. They said the only solution is to give the platform time to restart itself.
Yep, noticed the same thing. Could get the dashboard insights for the past day and week, but nothing for the past 28 days. I ended up looking at the specific metrics for insight instead. Frustrating.
All the time, at least twice per week. It eventually shows up, but is super frustrating in the meantime. 
Probably a waste of money. Talk yourself into an entry level role at an agency and work your way up from there.
I honestly never attended or joined one. I did not go to college for marketing, but now am the head of marketing for a software company. I think if I wanted to get into marketing now, I would do the following (which some you have done):

-Google Certifications
-HubSpot Certifications
-Listen to marketing podcasts like Neil Patels
-Consdering General Assembly course
-Or like you mention a bootcamp. There are also like 9 month courses from schools, but those can prob be more expensive.

Everything I learned was on my own and through working at a marketing agency to learn more. But if I was starting now, I'd probably do what I mentioned above.

Best of luck! 
It 100% percent depends who is running the bootcamp. More than likely you will end up with a bootcamp run by a fraud. To start, get any relevant Google Certifications and the Facebook Blueprint. Start networking today and signup for local marketing meetups, events, associations, luncheons etc. Talk to people and let everyone know what you are doing. You will find a lead on a company hiring and learn along the way.
Nothing matters as long as you know digital marketing. I'm a Engg. By education and never done an MBA after that. But, now i'm a marketing manager in 2 years of starting my career.
Save your money and do the free certifications and courses offered by Google and HubSpot. Moz has free courses and so does Hootsuite. If you really want to pay for a course, search Udemy or Udacity for cheap courses (they usually have regular sales where the classes are around $10).

But everything you need to know to get started in digital marketing you can teach yourself. This is exactly the tactics I used to land my first digital marketing job.
The certs should be enough. I never heard of a marketing bootcamp and having attended one would make a difference to me.
HTML 5 not gifs


Do you use the proper sizes?
Hubspot 
What you want to do in Social media management? 

There are different type of services available but it all depends on what type of social media management you need. 
HubSpot would be the go to for multiple services, though it gets pretty pricey.

I understand the convenience of having everything in one platform, but you’d be better off having 2-3 dedicated solid platforms. 1 for social, 1 for email and 1 for CMS.    
Bitrix
Organic and paid or just paid? 
I would like to do basic tasks. Manage and schedule posts, content.  Nothing crazy, just a tool to provide clients. 
The Dock, The Anchor, MarinaMail
"Starboard Quarterly" - it's a play on Starboard Quarter which is the right rear section of a boat. Of course, this would only work if it's a quarterly newsletter.

&#x200B;
A similar case is the Uber / Grab merger in SEA last year. If anyone has more information about that, that would be pretty helpful as well 
 

1. Describe your organization in as few words as possible.
2. What are the objectives of the Digital Marketing Strategy? Be as specific as possible. e.g. instead of saying ‘Increasing brand awareness’, say ‘Increasing brand awareness amongst the PHP programmers of Rome.’
3. On what parameters would the performance of the Digital Marketing Strategy be measured? e.g. Mailing list subscribers, Facebook fans, revenue, online sales etc.
4. What is the budget and time-scale of the Digital Marketing Strategy?
5. Have all stakeholders agreed to these objectives, parameters, budget, and time-scale?
6. Define the personnel who will be working on implementing the Digital Marketing Strategy. How many man-hours can the organization devote to implementing the Digital Marketing Strategy?
7. What is the current download rate of special publications, eBooks etc. created by the organization?
1. Budget / Timeline allocated for the project to determine the level of work you deliver + time invested.
2. Expectations & objective of the relationship / consulting you will deliver
3. What services are required and why? (Here offer upsells after doing extensive research before meeting client)
4. What their goal for the year is
5. Who their target market is / personnas (to better target ads, work on relevant & relatable copywriting, and to undestand your audience)

&#x200B;

I'd love to hear what others suggest :)

Goodluck mate
Their goals, their marketing plan, their audience, their history (what’s worked and what hasn’t, and why), their budgets and timeframes, their capabilities inhouse, their obstacles

Make sure you’re well researched in how you can help them either bu creating opportunity or saving cost (or both)
What have you tried already?
You’re asking specifically about improving the website positioning on search results? Or about the whole strategy?

If it’s the former, here’s some low hanging fruit you want to take care of at the minimum. To begin with, focus on quality of content for the topics and keywords you want to rank well for. And confirm Google has site indexed (crawled) your site.
Web development and mobile development services are extremely competitive. Is it a brand new website or did you do a redesign? If it is a brand new site, it takes a while for your site to earn Google and other search engines' trust.  I normally recommend my clients to consider paid search (if they have the budget) to generate traffic while we/they continue to create the content to generate organic traffic, interest, engagement, authority ... 

&#x200B;

It will be important for you to create some type of a content strategy/plan - consider doing video, case study, whitepaper, Q&A or FAQ ... a lot of people do type of specific questions. Talk to the sales team and see what type of questions they get asked the most ... make a blog post or article about it.

&#x200B;

Feel free to DM me if you have any questions.
What's the website, that would help with feedback. 
Since you already have SEMrush, check out the social media workflows that are on here: [https://campaigns.semrush.com/easy-solution](https://campaigns.semrush.com/easy-solutions/). r/SEMrush
Aaand, speaking of SEMrush - are you using our Social Media Tracker tool for your analysis? It should be a perfect match for you if you are looking for

>capabilities to get a quick high high level look at competitor metrics like followers, engagement rates, type of content, etc. 

And yes, I would really recommend checking out the social media workflows at the Easy Solutions page, as u/vendetta4guitar has suggested. ;)

\- Kate from SEMrush

&#x200B;
Ahrefs.
I'm on the same boat. Im trying to get my competitor facebook page insight but cant find a tool. For example, i want to find their target audience.
Ahrefs  is the best tool for competitor analysis...
Social Media Analytics Tools:

1. Sprout-social
2. BuzzSumo
3. IconSquare
4. Google Analytics
 SEMRush is definitely one of the best tools to check the competitors. However, you can use Sprout social, social blade as well for checking analytics of your competitors. This will help to develop strategies which will help you to excel in the field of digital marketing. 
Socialbakers
Similarweb  - it varies in accuracy though but you get a basic picture
Go into Google Editor and go to Keywords and Targeting > Mobile App Categories, Negatives. Select "Add Negative Mobile App Category".  Select All Apps > OK 
Honestly GDN inventory isn't great and pretty sure there is more fraud/bots there.
We had a client move to GDN from other activity for cheaper clicks but we saw much higher bounce rates from it so its cheap but its not good.

A couple of tips 1) try a whitelisting sites, especially at small budgets get really focused on targeting options which make sense for what you know about your customers. Start super tight, use as many targeting options as you think you could apply, otherwise the system will waste budget on cheap but ineffective clicks. 
2) increase your bids - you get what you pay for and to get some scale when it's tightly targeted. 
3) set a conversion pixel on site, ideally on the next step of the user journey to track and engaged visit, a conversion can be anything you want to optimise towards more valid users on a CPA model, it doesn't have to be a purchase. 

Can you split the tutorial into parts? Offer a free section and the rest paid for a fee?

I have seen companies also charge a lot per tutorial and then offer a significant break for a monthly subscription.

Sorry I don’t know many tutorials you offer or anything about the business model. Just off the top of the head



This is a bit facetious, so apologies, but I’d say it’s a good thing. Turn them off and out some proper tracking in place instead / smart goals are pretty much useless 99% of the time. 

If you want me to take a look at your site and suggest a goal setup feel free to reply here or DM me 👍🏼 

Edit: no charge / sales follow up - just happy to help. 
Why would you even want to use smart goals? Just use custom goals specific to your company or client's goals.
If the linked account falls below 250 clicks over the past 30 days for the selected view, Smart Goals will be deactivated until the clicks rise again to 500 or more. 
I mean. Wow.

I've never done bulk WhatsApp but I imagine if you did it would go straight into the blocked section.

I've found SMS conversion rates from cold leads are typically terrible, although great as a service reminder.

If you're in the EU, this is a GDPR nightmare just waiting for you to press send.

What exactly is your goal here?
Honestly you’re better off running a proper Facebook campaign or Google. 

This seems like setup for disaster. 
Hi, India here!

&#x200B;

I understand what you're trying to do, and trust me, WhatsApp may sound effective but it won't be a right channel in long run. 

We have tried executing something similar at our startup (B2B) but it wasn't worth.

I'm not sure about the tool you're using, but the number would definitely be blocked
I have dropped that idea 
Sounds interesting. I'd like to get involved if possible. 
sent you an email
sent you an email
Sounds great would like to work with you
Just emailed you!
Unless you're completely rebranding (changing name) I'd just keep that account and wipe the page. start fresh with new images or some designs advertising your skills. Although 1000+ followers might be low to some I think it helps you stand out as somewhat reputable, especially if the page looks nice. 
Hi ! If you guys have any other suggestions, i'll be glad to hear more ! \^-\^
Why are you chasing Likes? What does that have to do with your business objectives?
Use numbers as your friend.

Show the difference between an organic post and a boosted one and an ad. Show that organic reach is basically nothing. 

Facebook will give you estimates on the number of interactions yu can expect based on how much you are paying, so use that as well. 
The best and the cost effective way is to run an add campaign on Facebook with low budget. You will get >50 likes within a week. 
ManageWP, MainWP or infiniteWP, they are all freemium apps that can do the job

&#x200B;
You're looking for an "Uptime Monitor".

There are lots of services with free plans (with 10 min or 5 min intervals) and restrictions on number of pages. A quick google of that phrase will bring up services you can evaluate.
If your sites have Good Analytics...you can setup alerts for when traffic drops as one way to monitor things.
Statuscake should work well
I use UptimeRobot on the web. Has a free and paid version.
We use ManageWP and we like it a lot!
Thanks all, I see you all recommending ManageWP. I am going with it. 
ManageWP is dirt cheap for all it does. Highly highly recommend. Non intrusive, no headaches, just runs in the background and you don’t have to worry about it (until you need it). 
Am I the only one getting a kick from you converting some preachers?
I wouldn't often recommend this but just go outright buy some email/mailing lists (like several, from different companies). This will be super cheap compared to most other means of acquisition.
Honestly you could try direct mail to the churches. Design it well, don’t make it look like junk mail, and provide a real incentive for them to visit the site on the postcard. 

Maybe even some of those really convincing, but not actually handwritten, handwritten notes. 
Idk a pastor is a very niche person to target. It seems like it'd be hard to find that many that are even online
you want to spend a half a million dollars to acquire identities of pastors? okay message me i'll help figure it out

edit: emails, custom audiences and ads, friend/like requests
If you just need the names and don't care about conversions, buy or scrape a list. If you plan on upselling them and want them engaged, you can find them on FB. Use FB lead ads, target a lookalike of a pastor seed audience.
Consider partnering with leading sites in the niche and using their database, and building your own funnels using facebook ads. If you are new to funnels perhaps consider a training course or two
An El Toro campaign geofenced around churches might get some signups. If you are gonna spend that much you might as well try some out of the box ideas.
I have dedicated assistants who create databases for my clients. 

Then the client reaches out with thoughtful email blast. 

Although, this is grunt work it has many advantages. 

- your own asset of leads that means to you 
- information we collect is publicly available 
- up to date information  
- connection is less shady since there's a contact made with the lead organizations 


Google data studio
A slightly more advanced version to google data studio would be Power BI, but I've used google data studio and it is very easy to get going with a lot of choice for your data sources and a reasonably good design UI, could be better but it's free unlike Power BI although you can get a free trial to give it a go.
If you are ok with using something paid. I use Dashthis. I've also been looking at Databox which has a free plan and is geared towards agencies/consultants like us providing reporting.. 
Yes, there are distinct differences in the concepts.  Social monitoring is typically the act of listening to your owned channels and interacting on those.  For example, responding when someone @mentions your brand on Twitter, or seeing reactions to your brand posts.

Social Listening is much broader and, typically, leverages query logic to look across part of or all of a social channel.  For example, depending on your listening vendor, you may get access to the Twitter decahose (10% of the real-time twitter stream), or the Twitter firehose (the entire Twitter stream).  You can also run that query across multiple channels to look for conversations that, while not specifically @mentioning your brand, may be talking about it (it may be misspelled, or a topic of conversation may impact your brand).  That is listening for new conversations, but there are also tools that can look at historical channel data to look for conversation trends, and the like.

Finally, there is benchmarking, where a brand could use listening data to compare their engagement and/or brand perception against their competitors.

With a good social platform, you may combine listening data in a monitoring dashboard, so there could certainly be overlap, but they are distinct capabilities of a platform.

Hope it helps.
Broadly speaking, monitoring is intended to provide you with items to act on. Comments on your FB posts, posts using your branded hashtags, people speaking negatively about your brand on Twitter, etc.

Listening is more of a research activity, where you try to gather additional consumer data on a certain topic that feeds back into your marketing or R&D department, but is not directly actionable. I.e. if I’m in the umbrella business and I want to gather knowledge about people’s behavior and attitudes around rain, I would listen on social around that subject and gather data that my engineers can use to make a better umbrella - but I wouldn’t reply to each person talking about rain trying to sell them my umbrella.
I think both are same because these are the ways to analysis and prepare the social marketing strategy. From my point of view social monitoring and social listening tools  are different.
The first case sounds better as it signifies a team to me rather than just delegating the task and being over with it. 
Even "happy to help you " seems a bit better to me.
I catch myself using 'love' a lot in my writing and often go back to replace it with variants like happy/eager/delighted/stoked, depending on the audience and tone of the overall piece. Personally I think it feels so natural and genuinely earnest when I write it, but then I read it in any social media caption or overly-enthused blog and I want to gag on how scripted it sounds. Its unfortunate. Do you normally get leads/conversions through your blog posts? You can **try AB testing** it to see if it makes a significant difference. 

Regarding your second question, I personally think that giving **direct first names** makes your company seem way more accessible and genuinely eager to connect with your audience. I think this significantly outweighs the idea that your team is friendly or knowledgeable, which is honestly the expectation by default.
You answered your own question. Do internships.
have you used mailing lists in the past? 
Are you trying to do a edm campaign or are your normal emails ending up in people’s junk folders?
What size is the list you’re sending to? 
What is your subject line? 
Yeah optimise your subject line to be less spammy. Also create a mailshot with a high HTML to image ratio.  And more stuff I can’t remember right now.
I've had similar problems reaching peoples inbox before with gmail. Even some emails i've sent to my friends they went to junk lol. When I made a google business email I noticed my emails do hit the inbox 99% of the time.  I realize your not using a mailing list program but, there is software you can use that are optimized to land in the inbox that I've had great results with in the past. I used Market Hero but, Klayivo is even better.
Likely a domain trust issue. Unless you have taken steps to make your domain you send from trusted, you are likely to be seen as spam by many providers. In the last couple of years this has become more important.

Also, you could be blacklisted. Check MX Toolbox to see 
[removed]
Can someone give some context here? Is gathering the number of followers of different instagram profiles in an automated manner not legal? 
Do this, forget about the bid amount set it to maximize clicks don't set any bid amount, at least run it 2 days after that pause the ad and review your ad with search terms, after this you can find out what's your negative keywords and best keywords that you can get maximum clicks  then adjust the bid amount with respective of that.
Check the estimated first page bid. The CPC may just be too low to compete in the auction. Do a test and set the CPC to $10 and see what you get, as that will give you the data.
If the bid is not enough, it should be showing a message. How did you set the ad campaign, ad group, keyword for that ad?
I also asked this question on the Google Ads user forum and someone there suggested that my $10/day budget is too small.  Thoughts on that?  What do you think is the minimum daily budget to be competitive enough to get your ads seen?

I really need to either solve this or know for sure if I should drop it and move my March campaign back to Facebook.  (I know they're not the same kinds of advertising platforms.  I hoped to do both, actually.)
Look into creating a custom audience to re-target the people who engaged with your ad but didn’t convert. Plenty of how-to’s on google and YouTube 
You can use the same ads in a different campaign - in this way you will retain all the social proof (likes, comments, shares, etc).  


I also prefer using daily budgets rather than lifetime budgets - makes it easier to scale, should you want to.
Definitely implement the strategy basicbatch suggested, you want to re-target those who showed interest but did not convert initially. 

&#x200B;

On a similar note, you should be A/B testing. Sure your sales were good, but you can make them even better month over month by running multiple ads with different pictures, different copy, etc. and just looking at which are converting best. Then you can shift the budget towards the better-performing ads and/or just remove the crappier ones.

&#x200B;

Make use of the data!!
Sounds like tawk.to
I use Zopim/zendesk chat, which does all of this. There are numerous competitors that have similar functionality as well.
Intercom does everything you’ve listed and more.  Tidio does a majority of your list for free. Best of luck, this is a tough space.
There are already a few out there.

What would set yours apart?
I believe zopim/zendesk and intercom (more recently) have this space pretty well covered.  Not that there isn't room for a new player in the space, but these systems are *very* well established and heavily used across just about any industry you can imagine.  I'd put some serious planning into what would differentiate you from these systems otherwise it'll be hard to capture any of the market.
You have it correct.

CTR = Clicks/Impressions, represented as a percentage.

So 20,000/1,000,000 = 2%.

Your conversion rate will be measured as: sign-ups/clicks through to website, represented as a percentage. 

For instance: 800/20,000 = 4%.

Another metric to look at would be your eCPA, or cost per acquisition. 

If you outlay $40,000 on a campaign and have 800 sign-ups, that's an eCPA of $50
The concepts are correct but the assumptions on CTR and CR values may not be. It depends on which digital channel we're talking about, the type of campaign, country, etc. For instance 2% CTR is too high if we're thinking only of display banners.
How much is a good ctr? 1.5%m
