Take it and use it to stabilize your situation and then use some of that money to take out policies like she did
Does the military have some kind of retraining program so he can do something else that does not require a lot of physical movement? A desk job, basically? He's only 36... that's a long time to be not be able to work ever again.
You may find these links helpful:

- [Retirement Accounts](/r/personalfinance/wiki/index#wiki_retirement_accounts)
- ["How to handle $"](/r/personalfinance/wiki/commontopics)

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/personalfinance) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Are you working, if so and you are filing MFJ he can do an IRA.
Couldn't he retrain into IT? Programming?
so I've got a 1 million policy with 2 young kids and a stay at home wife.

My mentality with the 1 million is my wife can pay off the house, and use the remaining 800k along with her going back to work to not be homeless/destitute.  

I'm not looking for her to be able to invest this and live off it the rest of her life.  We've also got retirement savings that she'll have access to when she retires and survivor benefits for our kids until they're 18 from SSA.

We pay 45/month for our 1 million policy.  As shes a stay at home mom we haven't gotten any insurance on her even though I know we should.  shes a big "I don't want to think about dying" kind of person so she ignores it instead of preparing for it.  

Don't forget your work only covers you while you work for them.  if you switch jobs or are laid off due to an accident you lose that coverage.  I have coverage at my office but I don't consider that as it'll end as soon as I stop working here.  its just bonus for my wife if I die.

Just talk to your husband.  if you're hit by a bus you've got some burial expenses along with other bills, student loans and what not, what does he need to 'get through'.  often people need quite a while to grieve and may be out of work for several months.  What would help him sleep better at night?  that's a better conversation than "whats our magic number".  Whats his magic number?
Also you may only need 20 to 25 years of coverage, not 30 years.  Once the kids are launched, would you be able to live on a single income?
I think that since you are the main earner in the marriage that your $100K coverage is too little. If something were to happen to you the household income would drop to 1/3. I would start by revising your coverage. Normally, work group policies allow for additional insurance  to 2X or 3X salary for very low premiums.  

Personally, I would first start with having enough to pay the mortgage, also how much money would the surviving spouse would need a year to keep the household, then given the age of your kids, you might want to take that into consideration also. So to calculate how much coverage you need quickly and dirty I would do something like this.

* Mortgage to be paid : $105K
* Let's say husband will need $60K net a year and if he takes home $40K then the shortfall is $20K per year times 16 years is $320K
* Then you might want additional money for college: $50K
* Total insurance needed is $475K since you have $100K then an additional $375K sounds like a good number.

That is for you only, then do something similar for your spouse.
> A $500k policy for him for 30 years is $815/year.

Without knowing any details about his health, that sounds high. I encourage you to shop around; rates for the same product can vary significantly across insurance companies. I highly recommend using this website to compare prices: https://www.term4sale.com/

My family's situation is roughly similar to yours in terms of ages (we're a bit older), combined incomes, and commitments. We went with 20 year term life policies of $750k each. Mine costs $502 per year; my wife's is $450. They are with different companies, and we got them through that website (i.e., via an agent we found on that website).
I don't think $500k is too much.  If you were to die unexpectedly, your spouse may not be able to afford all of your current living expenses plus the cost of childcare on just his income. You'd want the life insurance proceeds to compensate for your lost income for many years, ideally until your children are financially self-sufficient adults.  I think a 20 year policy is all you need, but it should be for at least $500k.
The 30 year policy is probably so high because of your husband's age.  You will get much more affordable rates on a 15 or 20 year term policy.
General recommendation is 10-12 times each persons income on theming level term life insurance, probably for 20-25 years given the ages of your kids.
Try to calculate how much you would need to cover costs without your spouse from now until your kids turn 18. Maybe also factor in a break from work for a period of time assuming the need for time to process the death of a spouse.
Couple thoughts.   


The way I calculated mine was, how much does my wife need to cover expenses + increased expenses (maid service, childcare, etc.) *assuming she works*.  So your very first question is, if your husband passes, are you going to continue to work?  If yes, determine what not having his income does to your situation.  If you're NOT going to work, you've got to cover both salaries for life.    


If you're working, I'd recommend (and this is purely my opinion) the formula: 1.25 his salary x the number of years until your kids are out of the house and not dependent on you.   The 1.25 accounts for inflation and potential raises (depending on his field).  That gets that number in the $1.25-$1.5m area.    


This is, again, my opinion but I wanted to show you more the reasoning side of how I got to my own number so you could hopefully apply something from that to your own situation.  It sounds like you'd be fine on just your income if kids were out of the house and the house was paid off, so that's what I'd personally be looking to cover.
If the mortgage is paid off would the surviving spouse be able to cover childcare and other bills on their salary alone? If so, then you only need enough to pay off the mortgage, pay for the funeral, and pay for maybe a year or so of time off to grieve.
The general rule I've heard a lot is roughly 10x your income in a 20-25 year term policy. The idea is that would effectively replace your income if you passed. So no, I would say since you have small children $500k is not too much. A lot of financial planners would probably tell you to get more.
Three pillars:

1. Enough to pay all debts including mortgage.
2. Enough to pay for both kids' college education.
3. Enough for at least 5 years income replacement.

&#x200B;

I'm the same age as you, have two kids, and I have a 1.2m policy.
I have a $1.4M Policy for about $850/year, maybe you can get better rates.

&#x200B;

For estimating the amount, if I had young kids I would use the following:

Amount of all debts

Plus cost of living for the kids until 18

Plus cost of college for the kids at a reasonable estimate

&#x200B;

For explanation of my policy amount, I own real estate with a total debt owed (sum of all mortgages) of around that amount so that policy would clear all debts and leave the paid off assets to my beneficiaries.
At a 4% ("safe") withdrawal rate, you would need $1,375,000 to replace your husband's $55k in income. He would need $2,500,000 to replace your $100k income.

That's the high end - you wouldn't need any more than that.

The low end depends on your individual circumstances, so there isn't enough information here. You won't get anything meaningful from social security (small one-time payment, but not monthly payments) since neither one of you stays home with the kids. Your retirement savings is barely more than a year's salary (less than a year for your husband), so there isn't much help there.

Insurance can be expensive, and can look like a waste of money if you don't use it. But if you need it the value far outstrips the money you put in. That's how it works. It's a little worse financially for most people, and way way way better financially for the few people who need to use it.
