There is no way to judge this objectively.  There's only limited experience, and industry rumours for the most part.

Also, contractually, the policies are virtually identical.

My opinion only, based on limited experience:

\- never ever a no-medical exam policy.  A big player in this industry once told me their claims denial percentages.  It 10X what I'd expect from a regular life insurance company.  

\- I know someone who acts as an expert witness in life insurance.  He's told me off the cuff that Desjardins and Ivari are good for their business.  Treat this as gossip, I have no indication that there's any truth to that.  And I happen to own an ivari life insurance policy. 

\- Wawanesa has the best customer service of anyone - hands down, not even close.  (\*)

A far bigger factor is the age of the policy.  Any claim on a policy < 2 years will go through the meat grinder by the company, and many < 5 years.  That will make more difference in how your claim is treated than the company IMO. 

(\*) I worked on a death claim that was < 1 year old from Wawanesa.  Any other company I would have expected a review.  Wawanesa paid in days.  I mentioned this, they responded that they'd already seen the deceased's full medical file recently, had done a full drill down when the client bought, they weren't going to find anything new, sometimes people just die, so get it paid.  Again, any other company I would have expected a 4 month review.

Claims payments in the life insurance industry, as much as I'm a proponent of the industry, are an unregulated mess.  99% of consumers don't notice anything, 1% of consumers are getting screwed, blued, and tattooed.  And it's worse with critical illness insurance.  But I digress/rant :).
What type of life insurance are we taking here?
Which company was a PITA?

Also - do you have an insurance broker yet?  Find someone who deals with all the big companies and who has a lot of experience - they should be able to help answer your question.
I'm not too sure if I understand your question correctly but I'm gonna go based off of your opening question. 

1. it's very subjective to which company will give you the best claim process because at the end of the day it's up to the agent/broker that's providing you with the service 
2. I definitely recommend someone that's based locally regardless of pricing; at the end of the day if you're based in Montreal and your agent is based in Vancouver, they can't provide you with service readily even if we are in the digital age
3. I would recommend going with a broker who has access to multiple # of insurance companies, before you do anything make sure to ask who they represent, ie if you don't know any of the companies they rep then probably go with someone else 
4. when signing up for life insurance, make sure to ask about the claims process as well, this is very key and a lot of clients fail to ask this, all they wanna know is how much premiums I gotta pay? how large is the death benefit? etc. 
5. I'll give you an example of Equitable Life, they are very reputable and have the best numbers when it comes to a participating life policy; meaning it generates the best dividends out of all insurance companies in Canada, BUT they're a smaller company and smaller companies are much more conservative thus they'll require medical exam/checkup.. now if you look at Manulife, they don't necessarily require medical exam for anything that's under $1 million coverage, is this good? well it can get you approved quickly BUT if something happens without a good solid medical report they can deny your claim 

hope this helps brother, it is all very subjective as everyone needs insurance and no one wants to actually use their insurance once they have it
Read Preet Banerjee’s book “Stop overthinking your money”. His treatment of why and how to buy insurance is excellent
Three steps.

1) figure out how much you need.  For family, you're normally replacing a % of your income, over a period of time.  Google income replacmeent calculators, and try figuring 60-80% of your income, for time frames between get the kids out of the house, and when you turn 65 (when your income ceases).  That'll give you some numbers on 'how much'.

2) Type of insurance is based on how long you need it.  If you need it between 'now and til you're dead fer sure', that's permanent life insurance.  If you need it between 'now and a fixed endpoint like retirment or kids out of the house' then the cheapest solution is term insurance - life insurance that effectively (not technically) covers you for a defined period of time like 20 years.  Given your first 6 words or so, generally accepted practice is term insurance  - for 20 years or 30 years.  

3) now you know how much and what type.  Last step is pick a company. Call a couple brokers, tell them how much and the type, and see what companies they recommend. Pricing wise, you can also find websites with online life insurance quotes.
I really liked her PolicyMe platform to help figure out what I needed.
Why do you need life insurance?
