Good on you. I sure hope they treat you well. 
You just made the world a slightly better place for a whole lot of people. Thank you.
Do you think that your action has affected your future career at your employer?

Thanks for doing the right thing.  I know it must have been daunting.
Awesome. Few people possess that level of courage.
You should join the FBI, Treasury, or other group doing audits for waste fraud and abuse. You sound like you have a lot of integrity. You will fit in better with those groups, example the FBI, as they have a reputation for being stalwart and having a good match to your integrity. Your actions could help a lot of people.
That is awesome!  I guess I am lucky that I have never worked for an insurance company that did something shady on a consistent basis (maybe now and then with a trainee or something).  Insurance companies can have a generally negative reputation, but thank you so much for doing your bit in trying to keep things on the right track!
you are my hero
If they offer to fly you and your family to a company vacation in a cesna don't go
Good for you. I just changed policy for car and home and it took me 5 phone calls and a month of waiting before I was finally able to cancel my policy with mercury. What a horrible company they even were going to cancel my policy for non payment even though 2 weeks before that I had started the ridiculously long deletion policy. I think all insurance companies should be audited.  
And who lost their job for stealing from customers?
I had one of those old, first generation UL policyholders come into my office several years ago. They had the old, hand drawn illustrations. "VANISHING PREMIUMS" it said. Cash values were illustrated at 15 fucking percent annually. They showed cash values offsetting the premium in like 6 or 7 years or something.

So many people had those implode with loans outstanding. Can you imagine how pissed you'd be? You take a 25,000 loan out of this UL policy that your agent said would grow at 15% annually and that you'd never have to pay back, and then it terminates, and THEN you get a 1099 from the insurance company for that loaned amount. 
Actually contact Ohio’s insurance commission and file a claim with them. They will respond to you especially since his is a life insurance claim. If anything funny happened they will be able to help. 
You are well advised to speak with an attorney.  At this point this is only nominally an "insurance" question; it is, in fact, a legal question.
Do not go to an attorney just yet.  It's a cost that may not be needed right now. I'm not an attorney, nor do I give legal advice, but I can give you some advice from having worked with some insurance carriers death claims processes.  

Usually there is no issue with Death claim processing, but it sounds like this a paper work and timing SNAFU, which is (unfortunately) common.  Between underpaid and overworked employees, international standards and regs as well as state by state regs in the US that need to be abided by, AXA is a mess.

I would send the detailed letter to the claims department first.  This type of issue of miscommunication is very common at the larger, international insurance companies and though it is a pain in the ass AXA has internal, state, and federal audits that they need to adhere to, so the paper trail helps them and you.  KEEP A COPY OF THIS, DATED.   

Simultaneously, file a grievance with your states insurance board, someone said Ohio.  KEEP A COPY OF THIS TOO.  

Give it 2 weeks and call AXA.  They will give you some answer.along the lines of, it could take up to 30days to process; but really you're reminding them of your issue.  Call AXA again in week 3, and again in week4.  Squeeky wheel gets the oil.  

The idea here is that your letter will cause them to review it, and the grievance from Ohio insurance commissioner will make them review and respond to your request fairly quickly.  

After 30 days, if your request is ignored or denied, I would consult a lawyer.  Until that time, you are very capable of handling this yourself and it is not necessary to pay for that consult just yet.

Edit/TL;DR

The advice you got from the AXA is good, and maybe someone made a mistake.  Write the letter and involve the state insurance commissioner.  Wait to involve the lawyer, bc they are going to do the above just charge you for it.  
We're talking about more than a thousand bucks right? Probably more than ten thousand? Talk to an attorney. 
Insurance considers insured attained age, six months before the birthday and six months after.  Insurance age, your dad is 70. he died within the 6 months before his 70th birthday, thus he is considered 70.

Im sorry you have to go thru this. I just processed a policy from 1942. Just needed death certificate and some forms signed and notarized.
I don't have advice but rather a spooky coincidence. My dad died May 31, 2017 and my brother died on November 11th in 2008. I just thought that was interesting. 

I'm sorry for your loss and that you are having these issues. We are going through our own legal issues surrounding my dads passing and I really feel for you. I hope you guys can get through this as painlessly as possible. Best of luck.
Can you speak with a manager/ supervisor first? Write the letter as well but find out who exactly is should go to, make sure they are a few levels up or as far up as you can go. Maybe write an email. Department of Insurance complaints are taken seriously and it’s good leverage. But don’t waste it. A lawyer or DOI complaint should be last resort .

“Wait and see what happens “ is complete BS advice.  Ask for their supervisor. Then, if you don’t get anywhere, ask for that persons supervisor. Then write the email or letter summarizing your experience and send it to that person. If after a few weeks of following up you don’t get anywhere, then let them know you are going to the Department of Insurance. This could be a long, tedious process or you might get someone that knows what they are doing and can help you. 

Even if a claim is denied, there should still be a claim number and adjuster

Make sure you document all of your efforts, keep a log of all the dates and times you call and who you speak to. 

Sorry for your loss, and that you have to jump through all these hoops. 


She will be awarded the benefit when she turns 18 years old. That money is being held until that time unless he specified with someone (a lawyer, the insurance company,...) beforehand that it was to be appointed to a trust or trustee.
you can simply act as the custodian for her since you are her mother.  She can get the policy proceeds now and you then do with them as you wish.  

I would NOT however, put them into another life insurance policy for her. Just put it in the 529.  Source: former Life insurance agent and still Chartered Financial Consultant. 
Some whole life makes sense in certain situations.  Small amounts as final expense coverage, policies on young children that can be paid up in a short amount of time(single payment, or over 5-10 years)

A whole life policy that has a large face value that is not paid up in full in a short amount of time likely isn't the best option for an average family.  You can likely buy 5-10x the face value in term coverage compared with what you are paying for whole life.

Personally, I have a wife and a young kid.  I'd rather have $1million in term coverage for 20 or 30 years than $100-200k in permanent coverage for the same monthly premium.

Your need for life insurance fluctuates throughout your life.  Almost nobody has the same needs at 20, 40, 60, and 80 years old. Whole life is just too inflexible to correctly meet your needs at all times.
Your whole life policy should be part of a larger financial strategy. You should probably have a little bit of whole life for final expenses, you should probably have a term policy covering big things like mortgages and kids college and debt, then you should have a 401k or an IRA that you are putting money into for investment. 

If your whole life product is covering ALL your debt and final expenses then I'd say, off the cuff yes you are doing it wrong. 

I'm 36 and an insurance sales person. What I did 10 years ago was write myself a whole life policy for 20k and then wrote myself a term policy for 250k. My intentions are, the whole life policy will forever be $26 a month. My 60 year old self (as someone else said) will love me for that. The same policy for a 60 year old male is about $113 a month if I sold it to them today at age 60.

My term policy is to pay off my mortgage, put kids through college (if i have any) and pay off debts. It's a 30 year term that has 20 years left on it. It costs me about $36 a month. 

So far I'm spending $62 a month for life insurance. 

Then, I have a % of my pay taken out of my pay check for a profit sharing 401k and I have a specific $ amount deducted from my checking account each month for my IRA. I also take extra money I have and throw it into the stock market myself for long term investments. 

This is more of a financial plan than just saying "Well here's this whole life policy". Hopefully that helps guide you a bit more in what you should be doing. Paying a couple hundred dollars a month for whole life concerns me greatly. 
Lots of advice in here, most of it is on point, I'll just chime in with a few ideas:

"Buy term and place the difference in costs between term and whole into traditional investments" is the advice you'd get from a stock broker, with the idea being you get better returns on the invested money on stocks, bonds, etc than a whole or universal policy. The trade-off is that, for average not-ultra-wealthy people, the funds from your life insurance policy would be tax free (and can be accessed while alive tax free through a policy loan), whereas your traditional investments you will have to pay taxes on as income (either right now, or when accessed if stored in an IRA or other tax-deferred vehicle), which means that, while they have historically outperformed life insurance as a place to store money, they also have to pay off a good chunk of their additional profit to the government, and have the uncertainty of future tax hikes over their head.

Life insurance should have a primary purpose of wanting the insurance aspect, growth of policy cash value should be seen as a side feature. That said, if you see the need for the life insurance aspect, getting a policy which you won't age out of, which locks in your health rating, and which offers cash surrender and policy loan aspects can be a great idea.

In my personal experience, whole life makes the most sense for a client around age 50-65 who want a 10-20k policy for final expense needs. For a younger person like yourself, I would discuss how much investing you're doing and would either present a term policy, with the idea that you'll make more investing the rest, or a universal life policy, which is similar to whole life but is more flexible. Policy loans and the ability to use deferred deposits to directly absorb a large windfall (such as selling a business at retirement) with less tax burden would be my main reasons for considering universal.

Your agent wants you to have coverage, and if something had happened one of you would have been in a much better place than if you didn't have a policy, so it's not like they did you wrong, but, you might want to consider quoting other options. To a person with only a hammer every problem starts to look like a nail, if whole life is all your agent can sell he might hype it more than if it was one of many options... Ask them! A good agent should be able to explain why they sold you something *in the context of all available options*, and if they can't, perhaps you should seek additional opinions.
No. 

Term life for when you have people depending on you, things like mortgages or car payments or have to feed kids.

Whole for when you have to pay for a funeral. Unless you want to keep a couple grand in today's money in liquid assets to pay for it.

Also why are you paying hundreds for a whole life in your 20s? You would need maybe about $100,000 both, and that is assuming runaway inflation and death by the age of 80. You could easily get away with $50,000. If you are that young, and healthy, you shouldn't have to pay a lot because the risk is lower.
Whole Life is not entirely a scam. it works for the right people which is generally people with money and then even if you are the right person for it there are really only a small handful of companies who provide a good whole life policy. In your 20's you most likely don't need whole life, especially if you have long term premiums and not a 10 or 20 pay which it sounds like you don't. You'd be better buying term that is convertible in a few years if you feel the need for whole life. My guess is you got pressured by your agent to buy this product and it's not from a company you want to have a whole life policy with.
Let's say it together, and this time with feeling: insurance is NOT an investment. Whole life insurance should be viewed primarily as permanent insurance at guaranteed, locked-in rates. If that's important to you, cool, you did good.

If you bought insurance primarily as a an investment/because of the cash value, you're doing it wrong.

Life insurance makes a lousy investment. But conversely, your investments make terrible life insurance. 

You ask an interesting question regarding transferring your whole life into a term plan. I'm really not sure. Convertible term is certainly a thing -- turning your term into perm -- but I've never heard of it being convertible from perm to term.  

A few of the insurance companies I've worked with would let you apply for additional coverage without having to go back through medical underwriting if 1.) your original plan was fully medically underwritten (i.e. paramedical exam, blood, urine, etc.); 2.) if you applied for the original plan within a certain time frame (i.e. 1 year ago); 3.) so long as the total insurance amounts were still within guidelines and not over (i.e. the max amount of life insurance you can get is based on,say, your yearly earnings multiplied by 30 if you're 35). Several insurance companies even have a program like this even if the original plan wasn't with them. 

If none of those things apply to your situation and you're sold on getting a term policy, you might have to simply apply for a new policy.
Like Most People here said, It depends. And this is why having a trusted financial adviser is important. You should shop for one like you do a dentist, doctor, etc... Find one that gets you. Find one you understand and trust. Recommendations are good, but remember allot of people do not understand financial products, so have a conversation with your friends or customers that recommend them. Ask them question about what Mr./Mrs. X is doing for them, what their strategy is, etc... If the Financial adviser is good then his/her customers should be able to explain what he/she is doing for them at a minimum. Good Luck!
How long you pay it for? I have a 10 pay whole life and I might get another.  It is a safety net for the future, either myself or my beneficiary.  I am young, so I don't know what the future holds.  In 10 years I might be a millionaire or I might be dead broke.  I didn't want a policy I would pay until I was 99. 
There is a new form of life insurance that offers Living Benefits. That is it is possible to use without dying. A portion of the death benefit can be accelerated if a serious medical event happens. It can help cover the bills that your medical insurance doesn’t pay.  If your policy is still young, you may want to look at exchanging it for a Living Benefits policy. These policies are available in permanent and term.
If you DO decide to bail out of your whole life and get a term plan, all I would recommend to you about that is that make sure your term plan has "conversion options" on it (aka "convertible term"). Term policies with conversion options don't cost any more than term policies without conversion options.

You may have come to the decision you don't need permanent insurance right now -- and perhaps you truly don't -- but things can change in the future and it's good to have options. 

Basically a conversion option allows you to turn all or part of your term insurance into a permanent plan without health questions or underwriting. This is important because even though everyone plans to not need life insurance when they're in retirement years, it doesn't always work out that way.

To illustrate the importance of conversion options, take a look at [a 20-year term illustration](https://www.jrcinsurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/Banner-Life-Insurance-500k-OPTerm-20-Year.pdf) (link opens a PDF file).

Go to page 5. Look at what happens to the annualized premium after the 20-year term expires. In year 21, the annual premium goes from $976 to $37,000. Obviously, that won't work. So if you find yourself in 20 years after your term expires still in need of life insurance but you also, for instance, find yourself with a health history of some sort (heart, cancer, diabetes, etc.) and can't qualify for a new life insurance plan, your conversion options could bail you out. 


[deleted]
In your situation, term is best. Insurance is for insurance. Not investing. Ditch the whole life
Wow! I am really overwhelmed by the comments and I really appreciate every single comment here! Thank you for all your help!!! 

I will read each comment thoroughly and talk with my husband. I checked the policy in details and I found that the face amount of the policy is about 30&#37; of the current value of death benefits. So it seems like there is a term insurance combined in the policy.  I will try to find a financial adviser whom we can work with in the long run! 

Have a fabulous day!
Just so much bad info on this thread. OP good luck if you take any of this advice.

Keep it, your 60 year old self will thank you. 

Life isnt perfect and shit happens, the cash in the policy, the death benefit or the accelerated benefits will come in handy at some point in your life.

There are some advantages to whole life, but in general, it's more economical to keep your savings and your insurance separate. There's a reason insurers offer whole life, and it isn't out of the goodness of their hearts. Over the lifetime of the policy, they make loads of money in interest income off the money you stick in the "savings" portion of the account early. Not saying it's a scam though.

Your need for whole life typically depends on your ability to save. If you didn't have this account, would you be putting the extra money aside into safe investments such as index funds? Or would you be spending it? Be honest with yourself. If you're bad about spending any available money, whole life may honestly be an ok choice for your needs.

The problem with whole life is that it forces you to massively overpay for life insurance in your early years to subsidize yourself in the later years as you get old and more likely to kick the bucket. Except there's absolutely no point to life insurance when you're old if you've saved properly. So you're basically overpaying when you're young so that you can earn a rate of return less than the expected market return to buy a product in the future that you don't really need. Lots of negatives there.

Some people on here argue that whole life is a good diversification strategy alongside a proper investment portfolio because it offers a fixed return. It's safe to assume that these people haven't studied much investment or market theory and likely sell whole life on commission, but I encourage you to do your own research.

I suggest you get a quote for term insurance, and compare it to what you're paying for whole life. If the difference seems significant to you and you're proactive about saving and investing, yes, it usually makes sense to switch. There is an exception if you're extremely wealthy. Whole life can actually reduce your tax burden when planning out estate transfer, but I assume this isn't relevant to you.
Yes, it’s an expensive savings account with less flexibility 
Term. Take the savings difference and invest it.
[deleted]
When I first entered the insurance biz I went into an interview for a company like this (might have been the same company as you). It was crazy.

There were about 50 people and they shuffled us into interview rooms individually for a 2 minute interview. Then they asked me to go back into the lobby and wait. Some people would leave their interview and sit in the lobby with me and others would leave their interview and head for the door.

After a little while there were about 25 of us left and they shuffled us into a conference room. A guy who was about 25 came in and started giving the most bizarre speech I've ever heard a recruiter give. He started yelling about how we were the chosen ones among the initial group. Then he started pointing in random directions and yelling "we have a doctor, a CPA, a CEO, and an attorney in here! But you are all on the same level and the CPA is on the same level as the person in here who used to work at Burger King!"

He continued for a few minutes and passed out blank pieces of paper to everyone and told us to write a very brief description of why they should hire us. Only the 5 best responses would continue in the "hiring process." They said they'd review the responses and call the 5 for a final interview.

At this point I was just wanting to GTFO of there, but thought I'd have a little fun. So on my paper I wrote "because I like bananas and beer." Turned it in and left.

I got a call 30 minutes later inviting me in for a final interview, but I turned them down. 

It was insane. I'm sure that they called everyone, not just 5. And I'm sure they didn't read what I wrote because it stupid nonsense.

I cant remember the exact name of the company, but it was American Life or something like that and they sold the exact products you're talking about with same methods.

No, not all insurance companies are this bizarre and shady. They're a turn and burn operation. You can definitely find a more reputable company to work for that offers a real chance of success.
I worked for this company! They're very nasty and unpleasant. After doing it for a few months I quit and  worked a couple part time McJobs for a while. I did find out that I love working with policies, so I went into claims adjusting with another company and love it. If you're more interested in sales you might be happier in a brokerage. At least there your customers know they have insurance needs when they walk in the door.
They're all mostly the same. Depends on management. Which in the end are the suckers who decided to stay around long enough to be a manager. 
This is why, if you ever want to sell life insurance, you should work for a mutual company. All the big companies that aren't mutual companies practice these tactics. They know only 5% are going to make a career out of it, they plan for it, that's what they want. They don't care about their contracted workers.

All the big, publicly traded life companies operate like this. 

If you want to sell only life, that is just the way the business works. If you don't mind doing P&C, then I suggest going with a captive provider that has a mutual life insurance company. Mutual companies have no obligation to shareholders, their obligation is to the insured. They also tend to take better care of their agents.
did this one have something to do with Banks?
Life insurance is the hardest to sale to people. Consider starting with a property and casualty license at a independent or exclusive agency. That way you get a base hourly pay for some CSR while perfecting your sales skills. You can also use that customer base to cross sell life insurance.

Edit: spelling
I worked for a company similar to this. It was the worst 2 years of my life and I quit without having another job lined up. 
Run away. It doesn't get better at companies like that. Sweatshops like that are one of the main sources of the bad reputation the insurance industry can have, especially with the Life side of the business. 

With that in mind, there are a ton of insurance companies and brokerages that are very excellent to work for. Now that you have you license, I would start immediately trying to find another job. Maybe ask friends and family for recommendations on insurance companies they personally like to deal with? Chances are those will be at least decent places to work. 

Also, you may want to look into the P&C (Property / Casualty) side of the business. This is your insurance types for things being on fire or other people being injured (think home, auto, commercial liability, etc.). It is generally easier to sell this type of insurance, plus most shops will get you to start doing the processing and paperwork side of the business (on hourly or salary) to learn how it all works. Then you can move into the sales side if you want from there. 
You can do anything from selling individual life to getting into the group employee benefits side. The Ins biz can be very financially rewarding. 
I was a NYLIFE agent for 11 years.  It was a beating the 1st 4 years. I stuck it out on 100% commission (and residuals after a while).  got all my securities licenses and moved toward investments and financial planning.  Built up a pretty good client base and left to go to Morgan Stanley, where its less of a sales culture.  From what i have heard, almost all life insurance companies are the same situation.  If i had to do it all over again, I don't think  i could, but i am glad i am where i am now.  
Find a decent local agency that's hiring, and talk to them about working on cross selling their P&C book for a split commission. 
I have worked with a few different brokerages in my time as an agent. Unfortunately, it sounds like the first group you signed up with was not a great opportunity.

Every agency/IMO/FMO is a little different and all have different marketing strategies (cold calling and using a deceiving script sucks, been there & done that).

I would recommend taking the independent agent route and looking for a really good mentor (they exist, I promise).

This makes me mad because companies like the one you described and the one of the companies I worked with as well make a bad reputation for the entire industry.

Hold your head up and keep looking!   
OP, DO NOT MAKE YOU CHILD A BENEFICIARY. 

You need to talk to an attorney about a special needs trust. Life insurance could be an important tool here but, if you leave it directly you could jeopardize his or her ability to receive government assistance in the future. 


Is it even possible to get a $5 million WL policy?? The most I’ve ever seen is a $1 million WL policy and the MONTHLY premiums were insane. And it’s true, agents get more commission for WL policies than Term. When I sold insurance, mind you I had independent appointments with the carriers and wasn’t bound to an agency, I was on a  110% contract. So if your agent or “financial advisor” is even on a 30 or 50% contract with whatever carrier they “advise” you to go with it would be an extremely hefty payday for them. Always be weary with insurance. Add up what you’d pay out of pocket over the life or expected (this is the hard part) life of the policy and see if the makes sense to purchase one. Only you can decide.
If you are going to use the be you’re own banker concept a limited pay whole life is a great strategy.   Read the Power of Zero.  The amounts recommended seem a little high to me but I don’t know your full finacial profile.  When done correctly this type of plan comes at a huge tax advantage.  
9/10 times it makes more sense to buy term life insurance rather than whole/universal. You can invest your money in other markets instead of letting the insurance companies invest it. Term is just so much cheaper
Your situation is significantly more complex than a catch phrase. There isn’t a rule of thumb or an easy answer. Some took significant time outlining some general ideas and those are thoughtful and beneficial. 

1. Start with an estate planning attorney with an expertise in special need planning. They will help you avoid pitfalls like naming any child a beneficiary. You should have a trust for assets and a trust for assets that don’t impact your son’s ability to obtain government assistance. 

2. Identify a CFP with an insurance planning background. You need someone to walk you through, “human life value”. Due to medical advancement special needs children are out living their parents. Your planning needs are broad and complex. Buying term and investing the difference subjects your son to potential risk with market volatility. Buying and permanent (whole, universal) will likely be cost prohibitive. 

3. Consider government programs and subsidies through a social worker. 

Why? I spent 6 years learning how to solve every problem that ever existed with whole life insurance. It is not the answer. In addition, I’ve learned that investing only in the market without consideration to tax strategies will leave you with less money that is taxable. You should ultimately be diversified not only through asset classes, but taxable and tax advantaged buckets. 

Also- tell no one about your windfall. Take care of your spouse and child. 

Which number is the number for the death benefit? I am seeing $500k and $1mil in the original post and I'm seeing $5mil in subsequent posts.

Let's take a look at the process. 

Step 0. Work with a qualified estate planning attorney that has experience working with special needs families. Not all attorneys are created equal so make sure you have a qualified attorney that specializes in these particular areas. Ask for examples of clients that have similar situations to your own and what they have done for those client. Work with your attorney (not the insurance producer/salesperson) to set up a qualified plan. In your case, setting up a trust is needed. You most likely will want an ILIT - irrevocable life insurance trust - that funds the trust which directs how those life insurance proceeds will be released and administered for your son based on his needs and your wishes. As one estate planning attorney I worked with explained to my client, a trust is essentially a person's way to control a situation from the grave. Their are countless ideas of things that can be built into the trust.

Step 1. Determine what your son's current lifestyle costs and project what his future lifestyle will cost. 

Step 2. Determine how much of that lifestyle you 
would like to finance 

Step 3. Now you have arrived at a projected number to cover the cost of your son's current/future lifestyle. Now you can calculate what is the appropriate benefit amount necessary to secure this future for your son.  Evaluate your current funds, their liquidity, and their risk profile. Whatever number you calculate as a safe but reasonable number you can subtract from the amount of life insurance you need to purchase. 

I.e., You need $4mil to take care of your son. You have an estate that is reasonably liquid worth $1mil. Now your life insurance needs are $3mil. (Note if you own a business or other non liquid assets like your houses, please remember that cash is king and you have to be very conservative in calculating these non liquid assets projected future worth. Many owners/investors spend most of their lives reinvesting their earnings back into their businesses/investments. Your special needs child doesn't need real estate properties to manage, he will need cash.)

Step 4. Now you have to shop for insurance using the largest death benefit amount that you will conceivably want to purchase. With those death benefit amounts and your age, you are going to need to be medically underwritten. Your medical underwriting rating is going to largely determine your rate. If you're very healthy, the cost is much less than if underwriting determines you are unhealthy. See what offers you can get. This is why you get underwritten for the largest amount and based on final cost, you determine 1) how much you want to purchase and 2) how much you can afford. 

My LPT would be that the most cost effective option will always be to fund some portion of the death benefit with a term policy. Your need for death benefit decreases as you age, so you structure your purchases to diminish. Perhaps buying a 30yr term product and possibly some less expensive 10 of 20yr policies that strategically expire. **WHATEVER AMOUNT MUST LEAVE TO YOUR SON YOU PURCHASE IN A PERMANENT PRODUCT (whole life, universal life, variable life is riskier).** The rest that is a "want to" and not a "need to" can be purchased as the less expensive term product. 

Agents want to sell you 💯 permanent because the cost and commissions are the best for the agent. This is rarely the best solution for all but the most financially secure or adamant buyers (people that absolutely must secure a desired future outcome). You know you're getting worked if they don't suggest a blended approach. A blended approach would be using both term & permanent as well as accounting for your liquid assets. You know they're likely looking out for your financial best interest if they're suggesting staggering policies by cost/term. 

Shop multiple carriers. NYLIFE, MassMutual, MetLife, Northwestern Mutual are all well known permanent products. You can use SelectQuotes online to get price quotes from many carriers. 
You can consider universal life insurance, since you can generally get a really high sum assured with a lump sum payment. Add it to a trust, as suggested by others. Ideally have the trust dispense the money in the form of a lifetime monthly annuity if you want to ensure he is secured for life. You might want to consider adding one of the properties mentioned to this same trust, to guarantee your son a roof over his head. It is also good to look at limited pay whole life, if that is on the table.  


Also, if you have not already done so, it is good to plan with other instruments for your legacy, such as drafting a will, lasting powers of attorney to a trusted person (wife), and/or medical directive.  


Best of luck and well wishes to your family.
[deleted]
Term and invest the difference bud. Nothing beats it. 
A regular whole life policy has a fixed premium for life.  Since the death benefit isn't much higher than it started, the dividends have been either accumulating or being paid to him annually rather than being used to purchase extra insurance, so his actual net premium is about $361 per year, which is very good at his age for $50K in coverage.  (If the $2K is after dividends are applied, that is a different matter)

One option I often suggest to my clients is reduced paid-up insurance, where the policy is converted to a smaller one with no further premiums due.  This results in a permanent policy with a death benefit somewhere in between the current death benefit and the cash value, and no additional premiums due.  Unless you have urgent cash needs, it's a better option than cashing out right away, but it stops the premiums if that is important to you right now.
Ask the company to run an in force illustration on stopping payments, making less payment, and having the dividend pay for the premium (not sure if he is being awarded this or not). 

Probably can quit but tough to say without details. 
I would guess if has close to the death benefit in dividends. 
My mom also is roped into something like this. Except it’s 2000 a month. Idk why it’s setup like this. We’re trying to sort it and requesting illustrations for months.  
You have Term and Whole Life Insurance policies.  Term has a start and end date (5,10,20 yr) of coverage, and whole life just has a start.  The coverage is in place as long as the premiums are met during the years the policy is in effect.  Whole life follows you for your whole life.  Some of these policies actually pay out the death benefit if your father makes it to age 100.  It's also worth noting that finding a burial policy for someone your fathers age will be a challenge.  The rates and coverage amounts will NOT be comparable to his current policy.


Regarding this, let me make sure I've got this correct.  If your father dies tomorrow, the coverage is for 52k.  If your dad needs 37k for something, he can get that in surrender cash value. This costs him a total of $2000/year.  Let's not forget the dividends!  That makes his total expense for this policy $340 this last year.  That's $30/month given the dividend payout this year.  Otherwise it's $166/mo.  

So, how is he paying $2000/year?  That's part of the contract.  Could he pay less?  Probably, you need to check with the carrier to find out the specifics of what happens if you adjust the premium.  
Am I able to obtain a statement?  Yes.  Call the carrier.  
Is it possible to stop paying - YES!  I would suggest calling the carrier to find out exactly what will happen in this instance.   
Is it wise to cash out?  Possibly.  I know nothing about your situation.  
The policy will have all the information of payment schedules and surrender values, so you need a copy of that.  The carrier should have info on what your father paid.  
Same goes for you and your mother.  You might qualify for a term product, but the insurance companies will pull your MIB report.

So let's get to the meat of this post, what are you concerned about?  What about this policy has you worried?  The death benefit, premium or something else? 
What is the purpose of this policy?

As far as suggestions: keep all of the policies in effect until you get a better understanding.   If YOU need life insurance for you and your wife, your premiums will most likely be higher, and the insurance companies will rate you or reject you given medical history. Scoliosis, diabetes, heart faliure, etc.

This policy sounds like a good deal for your family, so the devil is in the details.  If you're hemorrhaging money, then it might be wise to cash out.   If you have ample arrangements for final expenses and unexpected expenses, cashing out is an option. If you're unsure of how bills are going to get paid when someone dies, then you should probably keep the insurance.  If you see this as adding value to your family, it's probably a good sign to keep the policy.  

I know I've written a lot, but I want you to have as much information to make a decision.   

Ask yourself, what would life look like with this policy, and without this policy.
If you cancel the policies now, how are you gonna pay for final expenses?
Why cash out now for 36k when he is 86 and will eventually get the death benefit.
You need what's called Guaranteed Issue Life insurance. The rub is, he's gotta make it two years. If you go with Gerber, and, god forbid, he doesn't make it 2 years, all premiums are repaid, plus 10%. After 2 years the entire benefit becomes available, essentially for as long as he pays the premium. Some people see this as rip, i assute you it is not. 2 year return of premium plus 10%,is way better than stuffing that money in a mattress, or any other 2 year vehicle i can think  of, after 2 years total payoff. This is pretty much his best option at thos point. Make him get it. You pay. If i may ask, what sort of cancer? 
as someone mentioned, guaranteed issue sounds like your best bet.  I would check out gerber's GI too.  yes, the infant formula company also sells life insurance.  
First, I'm sorry. It's very difficult dealing with a serious illness of a family member. 

Second, I hate to be the bearer of even more bad news, but after a cancer diagnosis there's no way he will qualify for any kind of life insurance. Maybe if he beats it and is cancer free for a number of years, he might be able to qualify for sonething. But if he currently has cancer, he's uninsurable. 

Yes, there are policies out there that you can get without testing. But they still ask medical questions. Abswering truthfully will disqualify him, and lying would constitute "material misrepresentation" and void any claim if/when he passes. 

To all others reading this, this is EXACTLY why you have to buy life insurance before you need it. By the time you know you need it, you won't qualify. 
My only suggestion is to check and see if there's anything available through work or other large group he belongs to. I once had an offer for a small life insurance policy from work that didn't require anything more than paying for it.

Other than that, the insurance company is pretty good at guessing how long someone will live, so if they do issue you a policy, it will probably not be in your best interest.

That said, it doesn't need to cost a ton of money to bury someone:

[Do some shopping](https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0301-funeral-costs-and-pricing-checklist). There's a [huge range in pricing](http://www.kiplinger.com/article/retirement/T021-C000-S001-the-lowdown-on-funeral-costs.html) and it can easily run anywhere from $2,000 - $12,000.

Also, cremation is very inexpensive if he's OK with it. At the end of the day, everybody who's buried ends up in a box in a hole, and all the "extras" they charge you for are forgotten. I've lost way too many friends and relatives, and nobody who matters, will care if you got the cheap burial or the expensive one.

Also, cancer isn't a death sentence. In many cases it's curable, and in others it's slow enough that it doesn't matter in an elderly person. Lots of people die from cancer, but lots of others don't. 
How much are we talking here? Insurance companies have no interest in paying out a typical large sum if they are insuring a post cancer diagnosis.

It's also very important to know what kind of cancer it is. Taken care of insurance in a day won't happen in your situation until the insurance company know more details before taking on such a huge risk.
So I used to sell life insurance, but don't any longer.  I just sell the prop and casualty lines, but there is a producer in my office who uses a pretty neat angle.  One of the biggest pushbacks she gets is that people get it through their jobs.  She will ask them what happens when they are no longer working for that company?  Usually people forget that the life insurance doesn't continue to follow them from job to job if they get it from their workplace.  
My first concern for you is being captive to only one company for life insurance. 
Simply put most young people don't need life insurance and they have some through their emolyer plan. To understand the problem of selling life insurance you first need to understand the history. The type of insurance policy you sell today was first sold in 1709. Up until the the year 1980 this was nearly the only way to get tax deffered tax treatment on investments, as in about 1980 the legislation for the tax qualified 401k was passsed. Not only does the qualified plan enjoy better asset protection from creditors, it also has more transparent fees. This has been a game changer as pre 401k the only place you had for tax deffered growth was an insurance product. 
Now fast forward to today, there are a number of options such as a roth, 403's p, IRA's, and tons of competition for dollars. Now add the Internet, options for low cost term, and the pool gets even smaller. 

Educated buyers are not looking at whole life unless it is for a buy sell or estate tax purposes, but given the unified credit most couples can now pass nearly 11 million without paying a penny of estate taxes. Add to that the coverage inside most people's employer plans and the need for traditional life is extremely small, and therefor a very difficult sell. The are two types of people who buy whole life, the truly uneducated buyer or  very wealthy who buys a policy for tax or business purposes based on his advisors recommendation. 

The fact that people have low rates for the rest of their lives is nearly a moot point very few people keep their policies after 65 add to that that they are typically underfunded and end up lapsing...that is why the companies love, love, love, love whole life as like 90% implode. People essentially buy very, very, very, very expensive term. That is why corporate puses whole life.

However, young families need a big chunk of ten to twenty term.
I'd be interested in hearing some stories too, our agency skews toward an older demographic as well.  We've been an agency for about 35 years(I've been here for 10) and are in an older part of town(i.e. lot of retired households, not a lot of young families with young kids).  We have about 1500 total households insureds(around 3000 policies) but I bet less than 5% of the households currently have life insurance with us.
Does SF have a policy specifically for older clients? My company (also captive) has a low benefit ($5K-$20K) whole life policy for 45+ clients. 
Honesty seems to work the best for me. When I get a young couple in their 20s or 30s in my office that just purchased a home I ask them, "Now who is going to pay your mortgage if one of you dies?" It's kind of shocking and up front, but it makes them think about the future and taking care of their financial responsibilities while they still have children in the home. Also, I will prepare them a simple life quote and show them that 9 times out of 10 the discounts they receive on their home/auto will practically pay for the life policy itself so essentially, it's a free life insurance policy. Hopefully SF has some good life rates and discounts to offer for bundling, I'm not familiar with their life products. 
You could try applying with another carrier. They are being fair by offering to average the two together. This is what any underwriter would do. I know you feel its unfair to use what you believe to be a mistaken lab reading, but from their end, how do they know which one is truly reflective of your "average" cholesterol...
LDL can/will change depending on lifestyle/diet.  It sucks you got caught with a high LDL, but it doesn't make the test irrelevant.  Work on your health for next year and see if you can take the test again to lower your premiums.  
Did you have a heavy meal or something the day before? I try to coach my clients before the med exam specifically for this issue.

Just try thru another company if you aren't happy with their resolution. Foresters financial has good term polices if you need an idea.
Did you fast for each of the tests?
AIG uses the same labs as most doctors use...quest, labcorp, etc.

Your best bet if trying to get that best rate is to re-shop to another company that offers more favorable cholesterol guidelines than AIG.

If you get the better rate, simply replace the AIG policy with the new.

What was your total cholesterol and cholesterol ratio from doctors visit?
First of all, my condolences. If your mom was covered by a group life policy with a conversion right, then the group policy would likely have covered her for 31 days past the expiration of the group policy. It is in those 31 days that your mom would've had to convert to an individual policy without having to undergo renewed medical underwriting. 

Now, what you need to find out was when her group policy expired. I am not clear from your post whether the "effective date" in the letter marked the last date by which she could've converted. If that's the case, the she would've passed one day after the group life policy expired. If her group policy's expiration date was after her passing, then she would've been covered at the time of her death.

If you determine that the expiration date of the group policy + 31 days = a date before 4/23 and if she did not take advantage of her right to convert to an individual policy, then the next thing I'd do is research the notification requirements around the conversion option. You saw the letter dated 4/25 but was there an earlier letter? Was that earlier letter received? And what does it say in her original policy re: conversion options? 

Do this to find out to what extent the insurer was required to notify her timely of said conversion option. If you determine that she had received earlier mail(s) regarding the conversion option but not acted on it, then, unfortunately, she passed one day out of coverage...
Was she still employed at the time of her death?
