Yes.
Sure.  Just make the charity the beneficiary.
Of Course. What do you like to do? Is there a Club or Group that is involved in this? That would be the charity for you. 

For Example, I am in a group that does Professional Fireworks as hobbyists and I know of more than one little policy out there with the Guild as the Beneficiary.
We have a company that will donate 10% of your benefit amount, to the charity of your choice and it’s not taken out of your payout.

&#x200B;




&#x200B;

The buyer and the insured can both be you, if not you, the buyer must have an insurable interest in you (spouse, business partner, etc..). The beneficiary is irrelevant to the insured interest. You can name a charity, or u/bicismypen from Reddit. As life goes on, and you start accumulating assets or grow a family, you can add/change the beneficiary to your estate.

&#x200B;

FWIW... mon life assumed the policy from the original company... TA and MLIC are in essence the same company (TA and MLIC were subsidiary  companies until MLIC went through a formal name change in 2010/2012 to TLIC) so actually MLIC/TA are the same company just MLIC is now TLIC. :)


Generally speaking, the beneficiary of a life insurance policy is going to be your spouse, so they can continue living a similar lifestyle after you die (if the life insurance policy is appropriately-sized).


Why aren't more people buying huge policies?  2 reasons:

* Cost: Life insurance can be expensive depending on a number of factors.

Money aside....


Other people ask themselves how can they make there own lives better regardless of who is impacted by their decisions. 

They say life insurance is an act of love and selflessness.
I think you may be vastly overestimating how often life insurance actually pays out. If you're talking term insurance, most people will pay tens of thousands (to hundreds of thousands) of dollars worth of premiums and never receive a benefit. Maybe you can afford a $10m policy, but you're paying an immense amount on a gamble which may never pay out. Whole life policies can be extremely expensive, and the benefit will likely be paid long after your children have already "set up." 

Another note to consider, life insurance sales are also heavily regulated (under laws referred to as "suitability" laws). An agent could have their license revoked, be forced to pay huge fines, and even go to jail if they sell unsuitable products to consumers. A life insurance policy with a benefit far and above what a normal person would need for income protection would likely be considered unsuitable.


1m isn’t even that much if you think about it. Depending on when your spouse dies. Spread that out over till retirement and it’s not going to be a lot.  Shit if my wife died tomorrow I would get 1.5m and that would pay me about 50,000 per year to help raise my two kiddos. 50k is okay but not great. I would definitely still have to work and work pretty hard live the same standard of life we have now.

Contestability clause?


Your best source of information is going to be the insurance company at this point. The nuances of that policy and your mom's life insurance in particular are only known to them. 

There is a link that I am sure someone will post to NAIC insurance finder that allows you to request life insurance companies to search for your mom's name and reach out if they have a policy that is hers. There may be some that you are not aware of. 

Good on you. I sure hope they treat you well. 
You just made the world a slightly better place for a whole lot of people. Thank you.
Do you think that your action has affected your future career at your employer?

Awesome. Few people possess that level of courage.
You should join the FBI, Treasury, or other group doing audits for waste fraud and abuse. You sound like you have a lot of integrity. You will fit in better with those groups, example the FBI, as they have a reputation for being stalwart and having a good match to your integrity. Your actions could help a lot of people.
you are my hero
If they offer to fly you and your family to a company vacation in a cesna don't go
And who lost their job for stealing from customers?

You are well advised to speak with an attorney.  At this point this is only nominally an "insurance" question; it is, in fact, a legal question.
Do not go to an attorney just yet.  It's a cost that may not be needed right now. I'm not an attorney, nor do I give legal advice, but I can give you some advice from having worked with some insurance carriers death claims processes.  

Usually there is no issue with Death claim processing, but it sounds like this a paper work and timing SNAFU, which is (unfortunately) common.  Between underpaid and overworked employees, international standards and regs as well as state by state regs in the US that need to be abided by, AXA is a mess.





After 30 days, if your request is ignored or denied, I would consult a lawyer.  Until that time, you are very capable of handling this yourself and it is not necessary to pay for that consult just yet.

Edit/TL;DR

We're talking about more than a thousand bucks right? Probably more than ten thousand? Talk to an attorney. 
Insurance considers insured attained age, six months before the birthday and six months after.  Insurance age, your dad is 70. he died within the 6 months before his 70th birthday, thus he is considered 70.


I'm sorry for your loss and that you are having these issues. We are going through our own legal issues surrounding my dads passing and I really feel for you. I hope you guys can get through this as painlessly as possible. Best of luck.
Can you speak with a manager/ supervisor first? Write the letter as well but find out who exactly is should go to, make sure they are a few levels up or as far up as you can go. Maybe write an email. Department of Insurance complaints are taken seriously and it’s good leverage. But don’t waste it. A lawyer or DOI complaint should be last resort .

“Wait and see what happens “ is complete BS advice.  Ask for their supervisor. Then, if you don’t get anywhere, ask for that persons supervisor. Then write the email or letter summarizing your experience and send it to that person. If after a few weeks of following up you don’t get anywhere, then let them know you are going to the Department of Insurance. This could be a long, tedious process or you might get someone that knows what they are doing and can help you. 

Even if a claim is denied, there should still be a claim number and adjuster


Sorry for your loss, and that you have to jump through all these hoops. 


you can simply act as the custodian for her since you are her mother.  She can get the policy proceeds now and you then do with them as you wish.  

Some whole life makes sense in certain situations.  Small amounts as final expense coverage, policies on young children that can be paid up in a short amount of time(single payment, or over 5-10 years)







So far I'm spending $62 a month for life insurance. 

Then, I have a % of my pay taken out of my pay check for a profit sharing 401k and I have a specific $ amount deducted from my checking account each month for my IRA. I also take extra money I have and throw it into the stock market myself for long term investments. 

This is more of a financial plan than just saying "Well here's this whole life policy". Hopefully that helps guide you a bit more in what you should be doing. Paying a couple hundred dollars a month for whole life concerns me greatly. 

"Buy term and place the difference in costs between term and whole into traditional investments" is the advice you'd get from a stock broker, with the idea being you get better returns on the invested money on stocks, bonds, etc than a whole or universal policy. The trade-off is that, for average not-ultra-wealthy people, the funds from your life insurance policy would be tax free (and can be accessed while alive tax free through a policy loan), whereas your traditional investments you will have to pay taxes on as income (either right now, or when accessed if stored in an IRA or other tax-deferred vehicle), which means that, while they have historically outperformed life insurance as a place to store money, they also have to pay off a good chunk of their additional profit to the government, and have the uncertainty of future tax hikes over their head.



No. 



Let's say it together, and this time with feeling: insurance is NOT an investment. Whole life insurance should be viewed primarily as permanent insurance at guaranteed, locked-in rates. If that's important to you, cool, you did good.

If you bought insurance primarily as a an investment/because of the cash value, you're doing it wrong.




If none of those things apply to your situation and you're sold on getting a term policy, you might have to simply apply for a new policy.






[deleted]
In your situation, term is best. Insurance is for insurance. Not investing. Ditch the whole life
Wow! I am really overwhelmed by the comments and I really appreciate every single comment here! Thank you for all your help!!! 


Have a fabulous day!

Keep it, your 60 year old self will thank you. 



Your need for whole life typically depends on your ability to save. If you didn't have this account, would you be putting the extra money aside into safe investments such as index funds? Or would you be spending it? Be honest with yourself. If you're bad about spending any available money, whole life may honestly be an ok choice for your needs.



I suggest you get a quote for term insurance, and compare it to what you're paying for whole life. If the difference seems significant to you and you're proactive about saving and investing, yes, it usually makes sense to switch. There is an exception if you're extremely wealthy. Whole life can actually reduce your tax burden when planning out estate transfer, but I assume this isn't relevant to you.
Yes, it’s an expensive savings account with less flexibility 
Term. Take the savings difference and invest it.
[deleted]
When I first entered the insurance biz I went into an interview for a company like this (might have been the same company as you). It was crazy.

There were about 50 people and they shuffled us into interview rooms individually for a 2 minute interview. Then they asked me to go back into the lobby and wait. Some people would leave their interview and sit in the lobby with me and others would leave their interview and head for the door.

After a little while there were about 25 of us left and they shuffled us into a conference room. A guy who was about 25 came in and started giving the most bizarre speech I've ever heard a recruiter give. He started yelling about how we were the chosen ones among the initial group. Then he started pointing in random directions and yelling "we have a doctor, a CPA, a CEO, and an attorney in here! But you are all on the same level and the CPA is on the same level as the person in here who used to work at Burger King!"

He continued for a few minutes and passed out blank pieces of paper to everyone and told us to write a very brief description of why they should hire us. Only the 5 best responses would continue in the "hiring process." They said they'd review the responses and call the 5 for a final interview.





No, not all insurance companies are this bizarre and shady. They're a turn and burn operation. You can definitely find a more reputable company to work for that offers a real chance of success.
They're all mostly the same. Depends on management. Which in the end are the suckers who decided to stay around long enough to be a manager. 


Life insurance is the hardest to sale to people. Consider starting with a property and casualty license at a independent or exclusive agency. That way you get a base hourly pay for some CSR while perfecting your sales skills. You can also use that customer base to cross sell life insurance.

Edit: spelling


You can do anything from selling individual life to getting into the group employee benefits side. The Ins biz can be very financially rewarding. 
Find a decent local agency that's hiring, and talk to them about working on cross selling their P&C book for a split commission. 
I have worked with a few different brokerages in my time as an agent. Unfortunately, it sounds like the first group you signed up with was not a great opportunity.


I would recommend taking the independent agent route and looking for a really good mentor (they exist, I promise).


OP, DO NOT MAKE YOU CHILD A BENEFICIARY. 



If you are going to use the be you’re own banker concept a limited pay whole life is a great strategy.   Read the Power of Zero.  The amounts recommended seem a little high to me but I don’t know your full finacial profile.  When done correctly this type of plan comes at a huge tax advantage.  
Your situation is significantly more complex than a catch phrase. There isn’t a rule of thumb or an easy answer. Some took significant time outlining some general ideas and those are thoughtful and beneficial. 

1. Start with an estate planning attorney with an expertise in special need planning. They will help you avoid pitfalls like naming any child a beneficiary. You should have a trust for assets and a trust for assets that don’t impact your son’s ability to obtain government assistance. 

2. Identify a CFP with an insurance planning background. You need someone to walk you through, “human life value”. Due to medical advancement special needs children are out living their parents. Your planning needs are broad and complex. Buying term and investing the difference subjects your son to potential risk with market volatility. Buying and permanent (whole, universal) will likely be cost prohibitive. 

3. Consider government programs and subsidies through a social worker. 

Why? I spent 6 years learning how to solve every problem that ever existed with whole life insurance. It is not the answer. In addition, I’ve learned that investing only in the market without consideration to tax strategies will leave you with less money that is taxable. You should ultimately be diversified not only through asset classes, but taxable and tax advantaged buckets. 


Which number is the number for the death benefit? I am seeing $500k and $1mil in the original post and I'm seeing $5mil in subsequent posts.



Step 1. Determine what your son's current lifestyle costs and project what his future lifestyle will cost. 

Step 2. Determine how much of that lifestyle you 
would like to finance 

Step 3. Now you have arrived at a projected number to cover the cost of your son's current/future lifestyle. Now you can calculate what is the appropriate benefit amount necessary to secure this future for your son.  Evaluate your current funds, their liquidity, and their risk profile. Whatever number you calculate as a safe but reasonable number you can subtract from the amount of life insurance you need to purchase. 

I.e., You need $4mil to take care of your son. You have an estate that is reasonably liquid worth $1mil. Now your life insurance needs are $3mil. (Note if you own a business or other non liquid assets like your houses, please remember that cash is king and you have to be very conservative in calculating these non liquid assets projected future worth. Many owners/investors spend most of their lives reinvesting their earnings back into their businesses/investments. Your special needs child doesn't need real estate properties to manage, he will need cash.)




Shop multiple carriers. NYLIFE, MassMutual, MetLife, Northwestern Mutual are all well known permanent products. You can use SelectQuotes online to get price quotes from many carriers. 


Also, if you have not already done so, it is good to plan with other instruments for your legacy, such as drafting a will, lasting powers of attorney to a trusted person (wife), and/or medical directive.  


[deleted]

Ask the company to run an in force illustration on stopping payments, making less payment, and having the dividend pay for the premium (not sure if he is being awarded this or not). 




So, how is he paying $2000/year?  That's part of the contract.  Could he pay less?  Probably, you need to check with the carrier to find out the specifics of what happens if you adjust the premium.  
Same goes for you and your mother.  You might qualify for a term product, but the insurance companies will pull your MIB report.

So let's get to the meat of this post, what are you concerned about?  What about this policy has you worried?  The death benefit, premium or something else? 


This policy sounds like a good deal for your family, so the devil is in the details.  If you're hemorrhaging money, then it might be wise to cash out.   If you have ample arrangements for final expenses and unexpected expenses, cashing out is an option. If you're unsure of how bills are going to get paid when someone dies, then you should probably keep the insurance.  If you see this as adding value to your family, it's probably a good sign to keep the policy.  


If you cancel the policies now, how are you gonna pay for final expenses?
as someone mentioned, guaranteed issue sounds like your best bet.  I would check out gerber's GI too.  yes, the infant formula company also sells life insurance.  






[Do some shopping](https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0301-funeral-costs-and-pricing-checklist). There's a [huge range in pricing](http://www.kiplinger.com/article/retirement/T021-C000-S001-the-lowdown-on-funeral-costs.html) and it can easily run anywhere from $2,000 - $12,000.



It's also very important to know what kind of cancer it is. Taken care of insurance in a day won't happen in your situation until the insurance company know more details before taking on such a huge risk.
My first concern for you is being captive to only one company for life insurance. 
Simply put most young people don't need life insurance and they have some through their emolyer plan. To understand the problem of selling life insurance you first need to understand the history. The type of insurance policy you sell today was first sold in 1709. Up until the the year 1980 this was nearly the only way to get tax deffered tax treatment on investments, as in about 1980 the legislation for the tax qualified 401k was passsed. Not only does the qualified plan enjoy better asset protection from creditors, it also has more transparent fees. This has been a game changer as pre 401k the only place you had for tax deffered growth was an insurance product. 



However, young families need a big chunk of ten to twenty term.
I'd be interested in hearing some stories too, our agency skews toward an older demographic as well.  We've been an agency for about 35 years(I've been here for 10) and are in an older part of town(i.e. lot of retired households, not a lot of young families with young kids).  We have about 1500 total households insureds(around 3000 policies) but I bet less than 5% of the households currently have life insurance with us.
Does SF have a policy specifically for older clients? My company (also captive) has a low benefit ($5K-$20K) whole life policy for 45+ clients. 
You could try applying with another carrier. They are being fair by offering to average the two together. This is what any underwriter would do. I know you feel its unfair to use what you believe to be a mistaken lab reading, but from their end, how do they know which one is truly reflective of your "average" cholesterol...
Did you have a heavy meal or something the day before? I try to coach my clients before the med exam specifically for this issue.

Just try thru another company if you aren't happy with their resolution. Foresters financial has good term polices if you need an idea.
Did you fast for each of the tests?

Your best bet if trying to get that best rate is to re-shop to another company that offers more favorable cholesterol guidelines than AIG.

If you get the better rate, simply replace the AIG policy with the new.


Now, what you need to find out was when her group policy expired. I am not clear from your post whether the "effective date" in the letter marked the last date by which she could've converted. If that's the case, the she would've passed one day after the group life policy expired. If her group policy's expiration date was after her passing, then she would've been covered at the time of her death.

If you determine that the expiration date of the group policy + 31 days = a date before 4/23 and if she did not take advantage of her right to convert to an individual policy, then the next thing I'd do is research the notification requirements around the conversion option. You saw the letter dated 4/25 but was there an earlier letter? Was that earlier letter received? And what does it say in her original policy re: conversion options? 


Hi everyone.  Look, we get it.  Breaking Bad happened.  You aren't funny or original though, so please keep the comments on topic and helpful so OP can continue to get some good advice.

Also, we have a rule against medical advice.  This includes pseudo-science.  Any comments acting as medical advice are strictly prohibited.  This will be your only warning on this one.


[removed]

https://www.hospicegso.org/i-am-living-with-an-illness/patient-resources/legacy-what-will-you-leave-behind/

Write letters, make videos, etc. Fr example, if you are big into cooking but your children are too small to learn your recipes, then make videos of them. Tell jokes, stories, be yourself in them. Make your secret family recipes or each of your children's favorite meals. Give them to your loved ones. 

Write letters for all their major milestones, including birthdays, getting their first car, graduation cards, wedding cards, buying a house, etc. 
Attorney here, my heart aches for you. Here's my two cents: others will have better advice than me regarding life insurance. But I can say this about probate. Avoid it. Your kids / their guardians will have to pay handsomely for it. Put survivors on all your bank accounts. Give written permanent authorization to every account you have (cell phone, utilities, etc) to future guardian. Transfer car to joint title with future guardian. Obviously make sure to list someone as beneficiary on any insurance policy you get. And please for the love of God get a will in case anything does need to be probated, a very clear advance health directive, and a power of attorney for someone you trust to make decisions if you become incapacitated. You may also want to consult with a family law attorney regarding adoption; I do not know if it would be easier to legally adopt at some point before you pass vs. assuming guardianship after. 

Anyways the point is, if everything transfers OUTSIDE of probate, then there will never be any 'estate' for creditors to bring a claim against. Remember also that credit cards are unsecured debt... I know it doesn't hold a candle to a life insurance policy but I'm mentioning anything I can think of.



One small suggestion please check to see if you can actually donate your body if you haven't already.  My previous experience in hospice.. they don't take everyone.   I know the rules for organ donation but not science donation.




Medical power of attorney is also very helpful. 

Be sure to have multiple copies on hand.  Every care facility and any ambulance will each need copies. (They aren't particularly great at finding them when you need them.)





I've got a lot of book titles recommended by therapists written for kids.  If you respond and ask I'll list them in a response.  If your current job has an employee assistance program, that can help you access grief counseling for the kids and yourself.



I'm sorry your life is being cut short.  I wish you as much joy and happiness as possible and plenty of medical marijuana.
I think your kids will be eligible for you social security benefits once you pass, you could look into that and print everything out and have it filled out for their guardian to file. 

So make sure all your accounts, IRAs, 401(k)'s, and other investment accounts have a designated beneficiary. Make sure you have a will that spells out things clearly without room for interpretation.






You're in America so you have group insurance available to you if you're either capable of working or have a friend who is working, has life benefits available to them and is willing to marry you so you can be eligible for their benefits.


Your kids will get your social security survivors benefits if you worked enough to be eligible but at 36 it's not going to be much



Hope this helps. 

Like others mentioned,  it's not as easy as it may seem.  When you apply for a policy,  even if you lied and said you are healthy,  they will take you through underwriting.  Depending on the amount you apply for will determine the test.  

No matter the amount they will check your medical record.  They will be able to see your initial diagnosis and can give you options then,  or reject you.  



Apply for SSDI immediately, your kids will receive it until age 18 or so.  Go to the Social Security Administration official site and apply on line (setting up an account - be sure to save passwords, and ID's which get changed every 6 months.) Leave this information to whoever you assign as your choice for caring for your kids (hopefully you have an attorney and have a medical directive in place.)  IF your diagnosis/illness and being terminal is from a big pharma screw up, you'll want some protections for your estate should that go to a settlement after you die. (you can assign it to your kids or not.)   I have very little money and am living paycheck to paycheck on SSDI and my two adult sons are my dependents and  I keep a will and medical directive for myself after I had a stroke.  I survived ovarian cancer, and have had my fair share of problems, but need to keep my adult children protected as well.  I have an old (still active) Met LiFe policy on my life, and had taken one out on my ex before we divorced -  placing our two sons as beneficiaries. One son has PTSD and the other is a case book Agoraphobic with panic attacks.  Neither work, though both have applied for Social Security - I am trusting that this year they'll finally get thru the appeal process and get SSDI for each of them.   I also have set up a trust for my sons, my brother has agreed to be executor on their behalf.   The trust holds my mother's home I received after she died, but once I die, it gets sold and the portions divvied up according to her wishes in the previous trust.   


Best of luck. 


There's still hope and this internet stranger is rooting for you.
Write a will. Who gets what, who gets the kids. 

Write letters to them and record yourself.


My suggestion to add is this; get a castings done of your hand in a position, palm open, like you're holding someone else's hand. That way, as your kids grow up, and whenever they are in a moment of need, they will always have their mommy to hold hands with. 

Hardly anything in this world can provide comfort like the touch of our mothers. And cast in a durable material it will last their entire lifetime (maybe make one for each child). I don't know how much a traditional bronze casting would be, but I'm sure anyone in that industry with a heart should help you out with a substantial discount.


You might want to make sure your body can still be accepted at the institution you're donating it to.  

Also, what part of the country are you in, if you don't mind me asking?



"Do not go gentle into that good night,


Their frail deeds might have danced in a green bay,

Wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight,

Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay,

Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears, I pray.

--Dylan Thomas 
You are a pretty new user. And Reddit has had its share of storytellers and karma seekers. Might sound harsh, but if you are for real you are probably immune to harshness at this point. All this to say, if your story is for real I am very sorry for you and kids. I live in Montreal, and if you are looking for some time off with your kids to enjoy what time you have left let me know. I will be leaving my house in August of this summer and would be happy to leave it to you and kids for a change in scenery. Nothing fancy, just and old place with three rooms and a kitchen in a hip area of the city. 

My account is almost a year old, I'm just a lurker, and this will be my first comment ever because this is finally a thread that stirs something in me. 

Make videos, write those babies cards and notes and anything else in that realm. Take videos of you together. 1000 videos saying "I love you" wouldn't be too many. 




Then you will know. Maybe you aren't terminal. 


I hope things turn out better than you think. Either way, find some peace.


You will always be loved by them, and they will always know that you loved them. Never doubt that, ever. 








Not finance related. but as a teen filming a video of yourself talking to a camera and telling them how much you love them...etc would mean the world to them and could help them with coping. At such a young age, their memory of you may slowly fade, a video will always help them remember who you are and your voice.

My deepest condolences to you and your kids. 
I am truly sorry for your situation. Please check your hospital for support groups for you and your SO in case you need it. 

Look at the NIH for trials. Maybe you have a chance. God bless.

Sadly you won't eligible for life insurance as you must disclose your medical history, if you lie and they will know you because they get an autopsy after your death and prior medical history and your family if they do get the award is liable to be sued for falsifying insurance documents 

[deleted]






Good luck to you, drink up, love up, do the SSD, and spend some time with your loved ones reflecting on the good times.  Love ya.
I'm very sorry to hear about your health.

Life insurance from a reputable company definitely is not a scam but no one is going to insure someone with a potentially terminal diagnosis.  Just having cancer is almost certainly an auto-decline.  Unfortunately there probably isn't much you can do financially for your children at this point.  The best thing you can do is file for SSDI and spend as much time with them as possible.  I'd also recommend writing them letters to open on birthdays and milestones, record videos of yourself, and take lots of pictures.

All the best, mate. 
I wish for your comfort and the security of your children good sir. You and your family will be in my thoughts. I wish you all the best. Take care.

OP so sorry to hear about your illness. I can't imagine how difficult this process is for you. There are organizations that help cancer and others with terminal illness - I'd love to see if we could match you with one of them. Can you clarify what diagnosis that you've received at this point? You said that it's stomach cancer but testing will happen in five weeks - what test is next? Have you seen an oncologist yet?



If I were in your position, I would record some videos. Videos of the talks you want to have with your kids but my never have the chance. The Talk, about self-esteem, about the family history, about finance, about your mistakes and triumphs, about how proud you are to be their mom. 

Stay strong. 


[removed]
I don't understand the issue... You collect 1600 a month in child support. Why won't your kids continue to be supported by their father after you're gone? They don't need a life insurance payout to survive.




If you are working or spouse works see if you can max out an employer group plan on life insurance. Dont think anyone will issue personal policy. 

Seek out your local Financial planning Association for a fee only financial planner/cfp who will work pro bono and they may have attorneys who can help pro bono as well.
I'm sure it's been covered a hundred times already and don't know if youll see this but just want to say I hope it's not as bad and I'll pray for you. Don't know if you're religious but even if you're not I don't mean to be offensive but it can't hurt. Also want to say that if something similar would happen to me I would hope to handle it with the poise that you are trying to take care of others. I've never met you and spent a minute and a half reading your post and have nothing but the utmost respect for you. 

First and foremost im sorry to hear about your situation. Prayers and good vibes coming you and your family's way!



I'm pretty sure you don't qualify for life insurance with a preexisting condition that serious. Praying for you and your family. 

I work in an underwriting department for life insurance. Unfortunately for any substantial amount of insurance (say >50k), you will not qualify. 



[removed]
[removed]

Words of advise (especially for your SO):  You are your own advocate.  For many of the healthcare professionals it is just a job.  They will not make you a priority unless you make them, and be sure to call out incompetent workers whenever needed.  We have had several ridiculous mistakes from nurses, oxygen supply company and others that have taught us the lesson the hard way, caused a month of extreme suffering and almost cost my mom's life.  (And all this was involving Rush University in Chicago, which is supposed to be great.)

Hi, and as a mom of 3, I send you and your family my support.  Please, make sure you have a will.  Also, a Durable Power of Attorney, and a Living Will.  Write down all of your desires for your final wishes, and make sure your lawyer, yourself, and your executor has a copy.  Your attorney will tell you to get anything you sign notarized.  Write everything down, and as for donating your body to science, thank you for that selfless act.  Make sure this desire is legally bound.  Get an attorney and consult with them.  Depending upon what state you live in, there may be social services that could direct you to legal counsel and documentation for free or for a reduced fee.  I wish you well - I wish you nothing but good health and success, and your kids nothing but love and success.  Best to you, and keep fighting!!!!
No traditional life insurance company is gonna insure you. Sorry. 


You might be able to ask work if you can get a policy times your salary.

Main concerns would be getting your kids through school until they can support themselves. 
Just a brief word on donating one's body to science. Its something you may need,to arrange in advance. I hope science finds a way to cure you first.


I pray you'll be well and and wish you the best. 
[deleted]
$1600 monthly from child support? That's your income? Why even worry about life insurance? Clearly the parent paying that much for the children can handle it perfectly fine. 
[removed]



Good luck, my friend. 


[removed]
Please don't ask OP to PM you. Thanks.
Most nursing homes will hire and train you to be a licensed LNA/CNA.  It's good and steady work, and you're only a year of classes/clinicals away from becoming an LPN if you enroll in a bridge program.  If you're motivated, you can go all the way to becoming an RN and be able to support yourself and your daughter working just 3-4 shifts a week.
Call your county and ask for the Health and Human Services Division and then ask them for a list of organizations that help to assist people with things such as emergency family assistance.  They should be able to provide you with a list of supportive organizations.
You may find this wiki page helpful:

https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinance/wiki/death_of_loved_one


- Any assets, whether your husband had any retirement accounts

I'm very sorry for your situation. Can you please provide more information? What job experience *do* you have? How old are you? Are you a US citizen? What family do you have and where? How much savings do you have? What's your housing situation?
Was he paying into social security?  Your daughter could be eligible for survivor benefits if so.
[removed]
Your daughter is 16, she can also work.  Both my daughters, who are teenagers, work and it helps with the little stuff. Also,  go to your district and apply for free school breakfast and lunches. You will qualify for sure. 

You might be able to get a student loan for a vocational program. Even if you don't complete it, teachers make good references.

For retail, consider your local good will store, and also try volunteering at a retail store for a charity while you search for a job, it will get you a reference or two. If you like dogs, volunteer at the humane society and apply for doggie daycare jobs. 
Are you legally allowed to work in the US? 
But maybe I can help in a small way. In my area we have a service called 211. It's like 411 (information) but for emergency help for families in need. Homelessness prevention, assistance with health insurance, ect. They may be able to provide you with info on job training as well as other avenues of assistance available to you and your daughter. 
I do hope this helps and that something works out for you both.

The Love we feel never dies. Its still there, just the hugs are different. Hang In there and good luck!
Do you need any help updating your resume? I've helped a bunch of friends with theirs over the years.

Was your husband earning decent money when he passed? How much he earned greatly impacts the amount of social security your daughter can get.


Contact your local church organizations and any non profits that help women or children. 
What state are you in?
I don't know where you live, but my company is in NYC, we're looking for a receptionist for an immediate start, no prior experience necessary (we're a small company, only 40 people, but growing fast) If NYC is an option for you, and you're interested, you've got your first interview :-)  


Sorry to hear about your situation.

Call the US social security office and see if you and/or your daughter are entitled to benefits.

You should consider contacting an estate attorney, most will give you a free consultation.  Generally speaking in the US, the surviving spouse gets all of the assets.  This would include bank accounts etc. 



The rules about when and how to apply are part of the interview, they are checking to see if you can follow directions. Brush up on Microsoft Word and Excel.

If there is insurance on the house, you may not have to pay any further premiums, and the insurance on the house will kick in and the house will be turned over to you, and after that you can apply for a loan against the mortgage. This way your daughter can continue her study while you pursue for a job.
In a short term you can try getting a job and it will be good if your daughter can help out her. 

How much is your monthly home lease? If your current lease is expensive you can think about moving to a cheaper place to give you breathing room with the expenses. Though I would not suggest to do this immediately as there is a lot going on and it must be very hard for you.

Do you have relatives who help out in short term?

God bless you.
Did your husband die on the job? You are entitled to workers comp if he did. The insurance of the company that contracted him will pay out. 




I am a green card holder, You do qualify for all social services. What they will do depends on your state ie some will help with a mortgage payment. Some will help with care repairs. Contact the salvation army their social workers will know what services are available in your area. Apply for food stamps that opens other services plus the food helps.

Make a budget know exactly where you stand.
 


Check any out standing invoices you may be owed money by whomever you husband did work for.




You should find out about your tax situation, If there is money coming to you file ASAP. If you owe wait until the dead line and plan accordingly.


As a socialworker not acustomed to us practice, it's facinating to see how people suggest the situation could be navigated.  

My only addition is that the situation can be overwhelming and that's very real. 
There should be words, pictures and remembrance, because the grief of it all thrieves on the lack of control and power.  
Talking abot it early and documenting it helps the child deal with it later as maturity comes. 
Assuming you're in US. He paid federal withholdings, right? You and/or your daughter may be eligible for his social security benefits. You'll need his death certificate, your marriage certificate, ss cards for everybody, and possibly birth certificates and id's for everybody. 

I recommend going into nursing: pays well, is relatively cheap to get into, is well protected from automation. 

Get the required education at the best school you can afford: university level and name brand matter a lot more in the US than people care to admit. But, anything will be significantly better than nothing. 




Good luck to you, I know you can get through this because you are obviously smart and resourceful. One thing I didn’t see mentioned in the comments is food stamps. I believe your daughter would definitely qualify and you might too. So sorry for your loss, I’m rooting for you 🤗

Housekeeping in a hospital. Benefits are excellent, though the pay is average. Depending on what job they assign you (you'll get trained to do everything) you'll have steady work.


Sorry to hear about your situation. I'd check the community online forums as well for people from your country of origin/groups, of course. 

I would not go to paying a lawyer for immigration stuff now. Most of the time, online groups have that information for staying in country. Most immigration situations are common.

Here's an online forum where you can find information and help: http://www.visajourney.com

Peach and love you.
Research the IRS rules on 1099 vs W2.  If you believe your husband was ever paid as 1099, but treated as W2 look at IRS form SS-8.  Many companies in the US missclassify workers. 
Sorry for your loss. Have you considered Airbnb'ing a room in your house for immediate additional income? Since it's low-risk and relatively easy, you daughter could handle it while you straighten out your affairs. On the note of your employment search for bilinguals, there are well-paying foreign software/tech companies with US-based offices that use in-house translators. Might be a path to look into. Wish you the best of luck!
Sorry for your situation. I hope you find a way.


I strongly suggest people to develop a marketable skill, just in case. 



How is your daughter doing day to day? Does she have a safe way for transportation back and forth from wherever she needs to be (school and home would be my guess). 





I'm glad to read that you're hopeful about pursuing a job in healthcare. If you need help making a nice resumé or would like any feedback on it, I'd be happy to help! I'm a designer at a top entertainment company, and my SO went through a ton of job hunt training while getting his MBA. Always happy to give advice or provide assistance! :)
This thread is chock-full of fantastic advice. My non-expert suggestion would be to follow up on as many of these as you possibly can. Ask if there are benefits available to you from every possible source, even if you think there aren't. I also love the advice to get help with the process through a social worker or other program. This may open you to even further possible benefits. One thing I did not see is information on how your husband died. I know this is not pleasant to consider, but there may be benefits for you and your child owed to you depending on how he died. If there are, I'm sure he would want you to fight for them for your daughter. All of these things are not to be greedy - they are to provide for your daughter.
Sorry for your loss. Don't be scared, I believe in you!
Tough situation.


Besides that, I work in the medical field, on the administrative side, and nurses make a boat load considering how relatively easy it is to enter the field, and the stability that it entails. You can complete an LVN program in something like 1.5 years (maybe 2 at the most), and you'll be making 45k fairly easily - hospice and nursing homes are your friend if you want quick access to a job. I know plenty of nurses who finished LVN school while working full time jobs.


There is a government program for children who lose a parent. Your daughter could be getting up to $800 a month through age 21 if she goes to college. 


I wish I knew what else to say but it seems like you’ve received more than enough advices.  Keep positive and we will all keep you in our thoughts and prayer.
Every state has social services, and single parent families can be eligible for a lot of help. I have a friend who has pretty much everything covered for her and her daughter. Definitely look into your state's social services 
Please don't forget to take some time for yourself. All these things weighing on you and you are are having to go non stop trying to take care of of all. Be there for yourself.
[Reposting from a comment thread in hopes OP will see it] 



I suggest look into working as an HHA (Home Health Aid) or a Retirement Home Aid

I'd prioritize finding immediate assistance through 211 and various charitable organizations (religious groups can be a point of contact here) and pursuing survivor benefits for your daughter. From what I read, the nursing field may be a good fit for you considering your background in science and interest in helping and working with others. If utilizing your bilingual skills is something of interest to you, you may want to consider interpreting work as well as the translation work others have suggested. It can allow you to pick some of your hours and case load much as translations do, but gets you in contact with others/the community to help and assist those in need.
Start with social security survivors benefits.
I’m sorry that I don’t have a comment to help with, but reddit isn’t all so bad and people are here for you!  Sorry for your loss, I hope he lived an amazing life with his wife 🙂
If your husband was working in the united states, then he might have had to pay social security. This would be listed as a FICA  deduction on his pay stub. You and your daughter may be able to claim survivor benefits from the Social Security Administration. Check here for more information: https://www.ssa.gov/planners/survivors/ifyou2.html

Edit: Here is the link for surviving children:
https://www.ssa.gov/planners/survivors/ifyou4.html








As long as there's a need in your area, and you have auto insurance, they can process you in 2 business days and you'll be earning money fast. They pay out once a week. 



First of all... you're going to be OK. A lot of good things will happen between now and ten years from now that you'll never expect or think possible.


Do you have a college degree? There are often courses that will let you become a substitute teacher that can be completed in a few days. If you’re not comfortable teaching, the same classes can work to make you a substitute associate, where you’re basically just helping out established teachers in a classroom.

If you get stuck in entry level jobs 2 that i highly recomend are.

1) Pizza delivery - make a lot more then minimum wage but to move up (managment) youll probably take a pay cut. 

[deleted]
Donate his body to science as that way you pay nothing.
Get a job

[removed]
[deleted]



Call the nearest embassy of your country of origin and ask for their assistance. They most likely have dealt with similar situations. 
be strong for your family...
[removed]
[removed]

There's a lot of love in the world and we'll help you out if we can.


[removed]
[removed]
Does your husband own any equipment/machinery you could sell from his business? 
Did he get hurt on the job? He may or may not legally have been an employee as opposed an independent contractor, in which case you could be entitled to death benefits through workers compensation. A lot of employers try to dodge their legal obligation to provide workers comp benefits by calling their employees “contractors,” but the hat doesn’t fly in court,
Get a lawyer,if your husband died on the job there are laws to help you. Find a good lawyer and tell him your story,most consultations are free at first. Most law firms will not make you pay anything if there is no case. Most firms if you win only take 33 1/3 %
Start with the house.  It is very common for your homeowner's insurance to have a death benefit in it.  Your house *may* be paid for.


The top comment seems the best - nursing 
I wish i could give you the biggest hug! I think the top comment is the way to go but if it doesn’t happen right away reach out to an employment agency, one that places people in clerical positions. You could get temp-temp work until you land the nursing home gig. It’ll be answering phones, filing, really simple tasks. I wish you the best, I’m so beyond sorry and I’m sending you & your family much love & peace. 
I suggest setting up a trust. The trustee can give out distributions as you specify. Also, you can take others assets out of your wife's name and put into the trust's name. This way she if she's gets into trouble she has nothing to give creditors. 

So perhaps something similar for your wife? Especially if she's not good with money. Give her some time to grieve and get her life in order (recruit trusted friends and family members to help) before the rest of the money is released to her. Of course, *talk* about this plan, like, let her know you're concerned about how she'll handle herself and that money and what your plan is to help her be able to live on afterwards and not ruin herself financially. Maybe also get her started on some financial management courses and such before that money is released.
If your wife is the beneficiary, the life insurance payout will go directly to her, tax free.  You can't control that.  The only way to change that is to set up a trust that would control what happens to the money, and make the trust be the beneficiary of the life insurance.  You would need an attorney to do that, and in some states may need your wife's agreement.  However, then, the life insurance payout may be subject to taxes, so the amount in the trust may be less than what would have paid directly to your wife, so that's a trade-off.  In both cases, your wife may still be responsible for some of your joint debts, depending upon what state you live in, and what sort of debts they are (whether they are co-signed, etc., whether the taxes were filed jointly, etc)  Consult an attorney and/or accountant.



[removed]
[deleted]

I would agree with getting a financial advisor to work as a gate-keeper for the money.


Are you positive that policy covers natural death as well as accidental?  A friend of mine found out the hard way.  She was devastated to learn their joint policies were only for accidental death.  
I agree with most of the advice here. Just a few things to add.
2. Insurance pay out goes to trust. 
4. Specify annuity payments go to wife each month forever. 
6. She can be "retardedly financially irresponsible" for the rest of her life and start fresh each month. 
7. (Advanced) You could put your home in the trust's name, and instruct it to pay the mortgage and property tax each year before it starts paying her. That way she always has a place she can't lose. Depending on where you live, you could even downsize to a smaller place so it's paid off and the taxes are smaller so she gets more money. 
Good luck!
What are you dying from 
[removed]
I find this post morbidly amusing in the sense that you're so nonchalant and rational about it all. I really like that you decided you wouldn't pursue a new liver because you felt it'd take away from someone who "deserves" it more. It's a selfless and pragmatic way to think. So is seeking financial help for your wife even in this state of your life. I guess I'm not helping much, I just wanted to say that your post did affect me in some way and I'd like to thank you for that. I hope that if I should ever face imminent death I could handle it as gracefully as you.
[deleted]
[deleted]




Would you believe this mother fucker is healthy as an ox now? 



Good luck in whatever happens. 





So, the most important think is that you convince her to work on herself, study her own psychology, process the event and get a new life after you. 

Don't worry about the money that much: it's her mind and her heart that you should try to save, not her pocket.

Also, it's time that the two of you try to study a spiritual way, and go as deep as possible together in the one that you feel more comfortable, with the time remained. 

[removed]

Lawyer here, and I also suggest speaking with an estates lawyer.

**Wife Stuff**:


To your annuity question, you could inquire about setting up a trust. These are usually for minors or those unable to manage money, but they can be done for adults as well. Basically, you can inform your trustee (lawyer, financial advisor, whoever..) to pay out $x per month while investing the rest.  Ask about the tax implications though.

**Debt stuff**:

When we were creating our will, the best advice we got from our attorney was NOT to try and control things from the grave. 
Regardless of whatever financial instruments you direct the insurance monies to, a clever "financial planner" will find a workaround, whether it's a loan, pledging assets as collateral, etc.... If your wife is bad with money or financially unsophisticated, she could be an easy mark. 

You and your wife need to meet with an estate attorney and draw up a will. Direct that the 20k in taxes and 70k in creditor debt be paid. 

For our will, we created a trust and named my brother as trustee, on the condition that he drop whatever he was doing, and take care of our business and real estate holdings (concern for our employees and tenants). The trust expires when my brother turn 65, but can also be liquidated in an orderly manner at his discretion, at which point the proceeds are distributed to my brother and the other 3 heirs. 

Do you have someone that you feel would be a good trustee and keep your wife's best financial interests in mind? If so, create a trust. 

Make your wishes known to your wife and the estate attorney. A paid off home and car and a million dollars in the bank when you're in your 30's can give your wife a lot of options. 
[removed]
My husband and I also earn a six figure income together and we are also somehow irresponsible with our income. I mean we pay our bills and mortgage and everything, and provide for the kids, but we always end up short. 
I'm also an heiress to my aunt's estate, I am her only direct kin. When she passes I will have to pay her debt off before her estate transfers to me. So the back taxes and credit debt will be immediately deducted. 

A good lawyer will be able to help you restructure your life insurance and your will to make this happen the way you want. This kind of thing is called estate planning and is very normal.


My father recently died, and we are dealing with these transfer issues with my mother.  As many, many, people have pointed out, hiring an estate lawyer for a few hours, if nothing more than to make sure you are using the correct forms/methods, should be step one.

I recommend a trust as well for the easiest way to control the  transfer of assets as you want to avoid things going into probate for extended periods of time (potentially months).  Also, you may want to look into power of attorney for your wife, in the event you become incapacitated or otherwise unable to make financial or other decisions.  More so if things are in just your name and not joint.  It may not be needed in some cases, but better to have that universal key in your wife's hands just in case.  You may also want to consider a durable PoE, if you want to grant that role prior to your potential inability to make directives yourself.  Keep things out of the courtroom after your passing as much as possible.  It will be cheaper and faster for her.



Many term insurances have an advanced benefit meaning you can cash a large amount early if you're terminally ill.
Hey man, I respect your logical approach. 


I have a friend who I chat with from time to time who is a high net worth financial advisor and deals with this type of stuff sometimes I think, if you have more specific questions, would be happy to ask his advice for you.

So do you have nothing liquid at the moment? I've been reading through the comments and can't seem to make sense of your finances lol



Then I saw this

](http://imgur.com/a/HUVeN)

Can you elaborate a little bit on that?

1st off you'll want to talk to an estate attorney to set up a trust for the proceeds from your insurance to go to.  Most likely will want an irrevocable trust.  Ask them about your state laws and if you need to get your wife's signature to approve setting the trust as a beneficiary.  My state of AZ is a community property state and my wife must sign off if she's not named as beneficiary. 


Another thing you'll want to consider is a corporate trustee of the trust.  This is if you don't have anyone you know that you can trust to be the trustee. A corporate trustee will make sure that the trust us being followed to the instructions given within the trust.


Personally, I'd just live life now and spend money.  You have a few months, and depending on your condition maybe less time to enjoy yourself.  Your wife will probably establish a whole new life eventually, being that she is only 33, and 1.2 Million is a lot for someone who can go and work/build a career still.  

pay off debts, put 150k as rainy day fund (i would advise less but you said your wife is financially unsophisticated), remaining 90% in index fund following s&p 500 (vanguard comes to mind) and final 10% in a fund following short-term treasury bonds. be sure to reinvest dividends

May you go peacefully into the night brother.

In terms of your debts, if they are in your name only she will not be liable. If you filed taxes jointly, she will be liable but payment should not be a problem for her.

I am not a certified financial planner, but you can find one in your area here.

http://www.letsmakeaplan.org/

The most important thing to discuss with your planner, aside from your objectives, is how they are compensated. You want to be sure they have your best interests in mind. Also your planner may be in a better position to go over the basics of budgeting with her, and help her through the first few years.

You can be somewhat reassured that you have taken the steps you need to ensure your wife is able to supplement her income. 1.2 million is enough to provide a supplement. Even a 1% return provides 10,000 per 1,000,000 and she should be able to do better than that with the proper portfolio.


You can also set up percentages. One for your wife and the other for an annuity to pay it in full. This way when she turns 55 to 65, she can cash it in and pretty much retire. 

Again talk with your insurance company or an insurance broker. 

>Edit: The amount of PM"s I've received from financial advisers wanting to help me out for a "percentage" iis hilariously sad :(

If you have some time, message the mods and give them a list of those users so they can get banned. 
1.2 million. You did well my friend. Props 
just curious, asking fellow redditors here: can he divorce her to not take on any of his debt?


- The trust's language (how you you'd like the assets to be distributed) is written by you.

- A trustee (can be someone you trust, can be a hired trustee) makes sure your instructions are carried out.

- Your wife will still be on the hook for your taxes and creditors (she is your wife and the therefore the same taxpayer)

- But will not be able to squander the money, nor will others be able to take the money from her because the language of the trust will prevent her from taking possession of the money all at once. 


- Combine that with her income of $30-$40k a year and she could comfortably expect an income of $70-$90k a year for as long as she sees fit.

- An attorney (necessary) and financial planner (helpful) would be a worthwhile investment to make sure that you don't screw it up.  Both of them would probably consent to bill your estate post-death given your situation.  











Shame on you FAs for surfing the sub to solicit  business. I wonder if that is even compliant. 
Have a lawyer setup a spendthrift trust. It basically sets it up as an annuity she can't change. So she will continue to get payments and the money will continue to grow. She will have to keep working, but she will never have to worry about money as long as the withdrawal each year stays at or below 4% of the principal.



Yes possibly an annuity would be good or a trust. Please find an estate planner to speak to! 


So a lawyer, will confirm, but you may need your wife's signature for making a trust a beneficiary to your life insurance. Just something to be sure about.
Put it in an irrevocable trust to be managed with someone who is better with money. 

Get a lawyer - probate / estate planning is likely to be your best bet. 
You need an estate planning lawyer, and quickly. Change the beneficiary of the life insurance to a trust and organize the trust to dole out the money how you want.
Didn't scroll all the way but haven't seem mention looking for an accountant as well to make sure you are maximizing all of your moves for your state/county if applicable. I would say take several meetings with people in all of the fields you plan on using and get recommendations from everyone you meet with. Meet with the account and financial planner all of your attorneys recommend and then reflect on the type of people that they sent you to when deciding on the attorney. Who someone refers you to can sometimes give good insight into the person making the referral. Pick and choose your professionals from there and follow their advice
This is sobering.

Your story sounds incredible- is most captivating. Brilliant engineer and all the other details left unsaid. Perhaps your wife is creative and can write your saga into a novel. She could get writing help for the first book and turn that into a career?


I have to say, I can hear the corks going back into the bottle after we read your words- I
From your previous comment, seems like you are dying from liver cirrhosis.



I'm sure you are already seeing a hepatologist. If not, see one. Get sober, get on transplant list. Live longer. 

My advice: Both of you should learn how to manage your personal finances, budget, and live below your means.  Yeah, I know, boring AF.  But financial literacy is a skill and it can be learned.  There's an amazing amount of great information on the right-hand side of this sub.  And it's free.




Learn to budget and keep your expenses low.  Learn to delay your self-gratification and save for the future.  There is absolutely NO WAY that the two of you should have to live paycheck to paycheck on $130,000/year.  My wife and I have a 10% savings rate on $75k/yr, and we live in a 3000 square foot home that is modest but comfortable.  We'd have a higher savings rate, but I'm contributing 60% of my income towards accelerated mortgage payoff (should finish mortgage payoff in 4 years at this rate) and with the stock market currently at its all-time highs, I'm waiting for the next bubble to burst before ratcheting up my investing.

My 2 cents, but at least it's free.  I hope the best for both of you.
PLEASE check the legal status for wills in the country you're in.

In the UK, if you don't SPECIFICALLY state you're excluding people they can challenge the will as if you 'forgot' about them. (Even if the chances are low of winning, this can eat up some of the money in legal fees).


Wow you have had a huge amount of responses, as someone who use to drink a lot and stopped about 801 days ago, may I suggest you come on over to stop drinking and have a read.  Lots of people getting sober all walks of life all types of drinking history.  You sound like you are good with the prospect of death but I am going to bet your wife might have a different opinion.  Would you consider trying sobriety for her happiness, sobriety is a lot better than I ever ever thought it would be.  You sound like a really interesting, smart, funny person, no amount of money is ever going to replace you.  Your thirty I am old enough to be your mum, please give stop drinking a visit, I shall wait to hopefully see your name in our sub......
Me: Attorney who specializes in estate planning, has a masters (LLM) in it, and is board certified by the Florida Bar in Wills, Trusts, and Estates.



The money in the trust should be protected from your creditors and your wife's creditors. Although once distributed to her from the trust, it could be subject to her creditors.


Note: I'm only licensed in Florida, but my post should be correct for other states, except if it's not.


Find yourself a Financial Planner ASAP!  Obviouly, don't go for the douches PMing you.   Ask around. Friends, Family, Coworkers might be able to refer someone they trust and known for years.

Same goes for an accountant.


Good luck!
You may find then insurer won't pay out, if they can demonstrate this cirrosis is self induced, avoidable and you continued against advice. Which you pretty much have stated here.

Certainly, be prepared to pay for competent estate planning but if this is cashing out an insurance policy, it's nothing like as clear to me at least your estate will actually be realized. Almost the first rule of an insurer is don't pay. They will seek any loophole. One year anti suicide clauses don't mean you can safely (!) Kill yourself 13 months later and they have to pay.





I've been a fan of Dave Ramsey for a few years. He hosts a podcast and you can check him out online for free to see if your into what he's got to say. If you contact his people, I'm confident that if he doesn't reach out to you, they can set you up with someone trustworthy to help you out.



Hi OP. 






Well OP, I don't have any financial advice that hasn't already be said; but for what it's worth; I'll make sure to have a drink in your honour in a few months time. Here's to you being a great husband wanting to ensure your wife is taken care of.
I'm not a financial professional but I have a little bit of an obsession with saving. Any device (including discipline) that can limit your wife's spending to 4% per year of your total savings should insure that it will last. If she can continue to work, her $30-$40K annual salary plus the $48K from your insurance can provide a reasonable amount of income. I understand it's not your current level of income but that 4% rule is the best course of action, in my opinion, to make sure it never runs out. 

See if you can find a pro bono financial planner. You can find them through the Foundation for Financial Planning or by contacting the Financial Planning Association. 
Wouldn't the best advice here be for OP to see an estate planning attorney/financial adviser? Depending on OPs state, he may be restricted from doing certain things concerning a spouse's money. He may also have protections from creditors depending on his state. 
Establish a trust, with her as beneficiary. An Estate Planner or Estate Attorney is going to be a good bet. Find someone who is highly reputable. Identify someone you trust to be the trustee. Have everything documented properly. 

    Ensure family members are trained on operation of the following:

     Main interior and/or exterior water shutoff valve.
     Hot water tank temp gauge, controls and pilot light (especially how to relight the pilot)
     Attic and crawl space access
     Sprinkler system controls
     Plotted Property line
     HVAC systems and controls
     Other System 1____________________________________________
     Other System 2____________________________________________
     Other System 3____________________________________________

    Ensure multiple family members understand/have completed the following:

     Add both spouses to all financial accounts as authorized users
     Make sure both spouses understand all sources of income
     Make sure both spouses understand all regular expenses
     Make sure both spouses are aware of all financial accounts
     Switch bill/financial management roles once per year
     Ensure major reward point account info is shared between spouses
     Ensure proper beneficiaries are setup for financial accounts

    Ensure multiple family members understand/have completed the following:

     Both spouses create a Will and/or Estate Plan
     Both spouses create a living will

    Ensure the following documentation is assembled in the Legacy Drawer:

     Cover letter with list of contents and instructions
     Estate Plans
     Power of Attorneys
     List of all financial accounts, including type, institution, and account numbers.
    o Be sure to include: Cash, Bank accounts, stocks, bonds, mutual funds, money market funds, retirement and pension plans, IRAs, annuities and life insurance.
     Funeral Instructions
     Important documents such as birth certificates, deeds, car titles, social security cards, and other key financial documents.
     Tax returns (usually for the previous 7 years)
     Key passwords and online access information, which we will cover in more details below.
     Marriage/Divorce Certificates
     Citizenship Papers
     Adoption Papers
     Passports
     Copies of driver’s licenses
     Military Records
     Names and contact information of healthcare providers
     Heath care proxies/living wills
     Medicare Numbers
     Medicaid Numbers
     Income sources (retirement, disability, social security, etc)
     Lists of other major assets, such as automobiles, boats, planes, inheritances, jewelry or precious gems, collectibles, household items of value, hidden valuables, items in storage, loans to family members or friends
     Main liabilities, such as loans, mortgages, credit cards, IOU’s, etc.

    Ensure appropriate family members have passwords for the following:
     Home IT key passwords, such as WiFi and router passwords
    Ensure the following is done with the home IT network:

     All devices labeled with easily understood names
     Network layout kept to a minimum for simplicity
     Basic passwords and layout are understood by both spouses
     Main service providers, such as internet, are known.

    Ensure the following is done with the online services:
     Decide how accounts should be treated after death
     Grant access to your passwords to a trusted 3rd party if appropriate

Edit: Formating








"In concept, the life insurance trust is very simple. ownership of a life insurance policy is transferred to the trust and the trust is then designated as the beneficiary of the policy. If the insured lives for more than three years after transferring ownership of the policy to the trust, then the life insurance proceeds are not taxed in the insured's estate nor the insured's spouse's estate. Absent an irrevocable life insurance trust, the proceeds would be taxable in at least one estate. "





Alternatively after X years, the trust could award her the remaining amount. Make X long enough that she's close to retirement when it happens (20 - 25 years?) this way she would be older and hopefully be more mature.


If you can: don't tell her how much she's about to receive. Uncertainty could make her be more conservative about money.




I tell this because what the others are saying is absolutely true.  Going through half a million to destroy grief won't even touch the true burden.  Talk to a lawyer, get your shit straight, and sing your death song.  
I work in investment management and you should definitely seek help from one (I can't tell you who to pick)

That said, you've explicitly stated:
-Both you and your wife are not financially responsible

Investment managers, specifically those that act as a fiduciary for a trust (because they are legally required to act in your wife's best interest) are more adept at managing this situation than you are.

Those managers will most likely expect a % of assets they manage each year in fees; however, that should be deducted from returns i.e. Ideally your wife makes money every year.
Funeral Director/Embalmer here. Have you thought about contacting funeral homes in your area and setting up some arrangements for your preferred method of disposition? A lot of people are turned off by the idea, but it saves a tremendous amount of stress when the time comes and would give your wife one less thing to worry about. Whether it's a full traditional service with a casket, vault, and a cemetery plot or direct cremation/burial with no services, you would be saving a lot of time (and possibly money too). They can also answer questions about organ/tissue donations or if you would rather donate your body to science (if you qualify). If you have any questions let me know OP! Best of luck to you.
>Edit: The amount of PM"s I've received from financial advisers wanting to help me out for a "percentage" iis hilariously sad :(

Its not a bad idea to consider a financial advisor though, if you dont know the best course Reddit is a bit casual / random for something this important.
I want to piggyback on this. Why did the OP say $1.2 million isn't a lot for 40 years? Seem's like a lot for me. Assume no children, then the wife can comfortably live a 30,000 lifestyle. I live at about 26k now with no "difficult choices;" I buy what I want and eat what I want (maybe I just have cheap preferences?). Then assume she invests that: she can expect to live off of 4% of the principle a year, which is 48,000$. That's A LOT for even the average middle class bachelor. Then add in her 30k income, that's a $78k life that can easily support one child. So what's the problem? Give the insurance to a competent accountant, explain that you want your wife to live off 4% of the principle, and you are golden. Worse case your wife lives on 30k a year (which is fine imo), best case she lives off of 78k a year (which is awesome and personally I don't think I'll ever need more than that). 
Probably going to be buried but design a trust that pays annuity. It's the only way to make it last as long as possible. 
Can't believe people are PMing you advice for a percentage. Any pics of the wife? 

BUT. The life insurance proceeds will go directly to her, with no taxes owed on them. 





> The amount of PM"s I've received from financial advisers wanting to help me out for a "percentage" iis hilariously sad

>  The amount of PM"s I've received from financial advisers wanting to help me out for a "percentage" iis hilariously sad :(


It is too late to put the life insurance in an irrevocable trust.  (it must be done 3 years prior to death to be considered valid).

You can use a regular trust, but given your history with finances I would be reluctant.  Not getting scammed, choosing the right trustee, not getting overcharged, etc. and getting this done within a few months is more of a challenge than you might think.  If your family already had history with an estate attorney, I would go that route.  But even a friendly recommendation is a crap-shoot at this point.

What I would do at this point is find an accountant.  Work with that accountant and your wife to:

*  get your taxes in order




Financially speaking, you will want to consider how best to get your wife into the process of moving on without you.  Grieving people are subject to depression, vulnerability, and bad decisions much more than others.  You want her back to her a-game as quickly as possible.  Don't give her permission to move on.  Ask her to move on.  Let her know that it is important to you.

Also, please tell as few people as possible that there is life insurance money coming.  All anybody needs to know is that she'll be OK short term, but it's going to be rough moving forward.



EDIT:  After doing a little research, I discovered that you don't actually pay taxes on life insurance benefits** in most situations

Hey Dude you seem like a good person.  I just wanted to say see you on the other side in the future.  Thanks for sharing this.
>It's all boring and means nothing to be honest

Yeah... pretty much. 



I think this problem comes from a combination of hyper-awareness and intelligence by which our minds can't help but reduce everything that's supposed to have meaning to its most basic form. Thus resulting in our discovery that nothing actually has intrinsic meaning. 



Companionship, relationships, they're all manufactured. Everything is conditional, thus meaningless. Even a mother's love, the purest form of a relationship, can be reduced into nothingness. If X is just the result of Y + Z, in other words, if my mother only loves me if I'm not homosexual (Y) and if I'm not atheist (Z), then X (my mother's love) means nothing in and of itself. It is perishable and its essence is dependent. Also, even if both Y and Z are not true, we can still make X true. How? By lying. Now X is looking more and more like bullshit and less like something real. What is my mother's love really if it's so fickle and manipulatable? That rock that just flew through the air, obeying laws of physics that are never not true, is more real than my mother's love. 



Financing aside, that is a witty username!
If you don't mind me asking, what was your job? Best of luck

I would advise seeking the opinion of a CFP and possibly consulting with your lawyer. Forming a trust might be the best way to insure your wife is taken care of after your passing.

Quick thought.  In nz a lot of life policies pay out if you are diagnosed with a terminal illness and given less than 12 months to live.  Not sure if thats the case with yours but may be worth checking?
Annuities are very rarely a good option, most of them are full of very bad terms and do not match the market. I would recommend going with a market matching plan like a vanguard indexed fund and have dividend reinvesting active, or consider wealthfront, they manage all the complex stuff for you. 
She will be more than fine with the $1.2 million as long as you can set up that she 1) open a 401k through her company if that's an option and put the max into it every year 2) open up a roth IRA for her and max that out every year as well and 3) open a HSA and max that out every year as well. All the above will be approx $27K annually set aside and will grow until she reaches retirement. Both the Roth and HSA can be taken out to a certain extent without penalty in case of emergency. This will create a solid and comfortable safety net for her and I'm sure there is someway you can set up that requirement (to be distributed from your policy annually) through the lawyer as discussed by others. So sorry you're going through this, life is so unpredictable but there is something after it, no matter what you believe in. Please also spend time to do some traveling with your wife and enjoy that time together. Will be thinking of you, and best of luck.
In the Army, we had $400k life insurance policies. I was unmarried but had a child from a previous relationship. Before going to Iraq, we were required to set up a Will and decide the beneficiaries of our life insurance. I knew my mother needed some money, but I wanted to make sure my daughter was taken care of too. I set mine up to give about 20% to my mother and put the other 80% into a Trust, of which I made my aunt the Executor because I knew she made enough money that she wouldn't be tempted to take any. The terms of the Trust were to put that 80% into an account with annual interest. When my daughter reached 18, she would have received 30% of the total that was in the account (for college, moving out, living comfortably, etc.) but we've all been 18 and I know I very probably would have blown through that kind of money too fast. So she would then receive 50% of the total when she reached 25, then the remainder at 30 years old. The hope was, by the time she's 30, and been given two large sums of money, even if she had made mistakes with it, by the third sum, surely she would be more responsible with it.


Most brokerage houses, some large banks, have no fees for having an acct (ira's or aftertax), it's the management part they get you on.

File documents with your local court system to become her personal representative, giving you full power to act as her and wind up her affairs, file final tax returns, and so on.

Gain access to her email and bank statements.  Somewhere in there, you'll see outgoing payments to XX Insurance. Call them.


Please keep in mind that her debts (if that's what you are referring to) get paid by her estate.  You are not liable for her debts, and if you are the beneficiary of a life insurance policy, that money come to you and does not go to her debts.

If you are in the US, you can start by checking into your state's Dept of Insurance website. There should be a form that you can fill out with your mother's personal info, then you can send that in to the state DOI to have them locate the policy. If you don't mind sharing what state you're located in, I can do a quick search for you to see what I can find.
Try talking to her employer. A lot of chain employers like that have a policy they automatically give their employees. Start there.
Has she been with the same bank for long?  If she has, then there will be SOME record of payment from her account for insurance.  That would be the place to look. 
Hi there,



EDIT - Not sure how to bold/italicize this on Reddit so I'll use caps lock! GET THOSE COPIES OF HER DEATH CERTIFICATE AND PUT THEM IN A SAFE PLACE, THEN MAKE ELECTRONIC COPIES AND SAVE THEM ON YOUR COMPUTER AFTER SENDING THEM AS EMAIL ATTACHMENTS TO YOURSELF 5 OR 6 TIMES! You will be very surprised how many times the certificate may come up in the future (tax work is a good example).



Grief plays havoc with your rational thinking.

There is a lot of good advice in this thread and I just want to add one thing to watch for in case all else fails.

At least for a while, don't assume ANYTHING is junk mail. Most insurance/investment companies in the US are now required to attempt to contact beneficiaries of policy holders who have passed away. They run periodic searches of a social security database, cross referenced with their list of policy holders, and then send letters to beneficiaries or to the last known address of the insured. The letters usually look like they're part of some mass-mailing project (because they are) but they are trying to notify you that there are funds to be claimed. The length of time they are required to continue attempts varies by state, it could be as little as 1 year or up to 5 years.


I know its hard and I hope this helps.

Have you gone through any of her documentation she kept at home? Any of her mail? Might be something in there.
My condolences. Unfortunately, I can't give you any recommendations other than to look thru her papers in the house. I hope things work out for you very soon.




Check your auto/home carrier as well as any old auto/home carriers you are aware of


Worst case you may have to wait for your state to post "unclaimed property" and I would monitor that as so long as the life insurance company is aware of her passing they have to make this information accessible (at least where I live)


On another note I'm very sorry to hear of your mother's passing. 

https://www.usa.gov/unclaimed-money#item-37222

Kind of off-topic but sometimes you can find unclaimed money from bank accts, etc. It will take a while for these claims to show up but it's good to check periodically.
Insurance Agent Here: I would look at her credit card and bank accounts. There should be insurance payments there. You might see an annual or monthly payment for her company. You can also find out who does her home/auto insurance. The agent or company may know where she has her life insurance as well, even if not with them. I wish you good luck. You'll probably be able to find it. 
look at bank account to see who she paid chcks too,also look at her paperwork
http://www.iii.org/article/how-can-i-locate-lost-life-insurance-policy


My grandmother always said when the heart is healing, today is the hardest day and tomorrow will be better than that.

Talk to a family lawyer (one who specializes in estates, probate court, etc).  This is good for many reasons.  One is, they are great at finding insurance policies you might not know about. Two is, they probably also have a good sense about whether or not the loss you suffered carries legal responsibilities by a third party (especially in cases with a death at or near her work, death due to auto accident of any sort, etc) and can give you good advice on the best way to proceed and get any money you are owed. Aside from a specific life insurance policy your mother's death might also have been covered by any number of other policies that are hidden until an expert starts investigating.  
   
Source: sadly, had to do exactly that already for a deceased parent, as a young man. And yes the lawyer uncovered a substantial sum, unrelated to personal life insurance policies.



Good luck. 
Sad news about your mom. My sympathies.

The tips to contact your mom's employer are good. 


Btw everyone should do this at least once for yourself. You'd be amazed what kind of stuff can turn up. Won't happen for everyone, but it's kind of surprising how much wealth goes unclaimed in the US

These people were a godsend. Within a couple days of my email, I got a call from the new holder of the policy explaining everything, and about a week later I got a letter from my state explaining their whole process. 

Look at her bank account statements. Hopefully there's a check or direct withdrawal for the insurance premium. If not there, look on her paystubs. Sometimes it's deducted directly from pay. 
sorry for your loss  i am in the same situation as you currently dealing with my deceased mothers estate. Its very complicated and i have no idea whether i have "found" all her policies and assets. My solicitor informed me that you can pay for an asset search - in the UK its about £150 (here is an example https://www.landmarkfas.co.uk/corp/index.php) but i may go down this route depending on how my searches go. good luck
From personal experience, I have an accidental death & dismemberment policy that gets automatically paid monthly through one of my credit cards. 

Look through your moms credit card bills at least one year looking for automatic payments to an AD&D. If it shows up, the credit card company can give you the details of whom the payments are going to, including a policy # and tel #
Check her bank account statements for automatic withdrawals to companies that sound like insurance companies. If not auto withdrawal look at the checking account ledger for checks made out to insurance sounding companies. 




While I'm typing this, I also though that the Insurance Commission in your state might have a record of who holds her policy. Might check there as well. 

Good luck friend. Let us know how it all goes. 

If you have access to her bank account, you can see to which companies did the money go. Then you can figure out the rest with them and a death certificate.
Just as an aside, always search for lost money on the internet... something may pop up there under her name over the next few years. Search Missing Money. 
If she had a recurring life insurance premium that she was paying monthly it will show up in her monthly bank statement same amount each withdrawn automatically. Ask the bank for her statements but be prepared to provide death certificate and proof that you are who you say you are.
Life insurance requires monthly payments. The payments are either deducted from her paycheck at work or paid via her bank account (just like any other bill). So check with her employer and check her bank statements.
Your home state might have an office which can help you locate that policy.  For example, Illinois has a Department of Insurance.  Ex: https://insurance.illinois.gov/Applications/LifePolicyLocator/






I hope this helps you some, as I've been through this too. Sending you strength.
File out an extended ncoa form at the post office and have all of her mail forwarded to your address.


If she had an active policy she was making payments right?  Check her check book, her statements, and her credit card statement.  See who her money was going to and youll know all policies she has right?

http://www.naic.org/documents/consumer_alert_locate_lost_life_insurance_benefit.htm
[removed]





Wouldn't a credit check give you the phone and address of her insurance? If she was actively paying into it, and wasn't through an employer it's probably there. 

Cancel. That. Card.
Best non biased advise I can give you is make sure the grandmother is in a state of mind where she can make good and clear decisions. And if that is truly the case to get a medical professional who is willing to put that in writing and confirm the clear state of mind behind that decision. This is important if the estate eventually gets challenged and there are lawsuits being thrown around relating to a sudden change. As long as the grandmother’s wishes are being fulfilled legally relating to her portion of her finances this is probably the best way to go. 


Tell your friend to see a shrink and a Financial advisor. Getting money in large sums can be a mind fuck, especially when other tell you how deserving they are or believe they are deserving. 





When a relative dies, you learn very quickly who the vultures are.  




[deleted]



"No" is going to be the most important word she's going to need to learn to tell people, especially her mother, and anyone else in her life that is a financial screw-up.
Tricky topic. You already got good advice here. Hope your friend is smarts and follow it. Especially the Medical professional and trust fund advice. She should not fuck over her own future because her parents are shitty people. That she opened a CC in her mothers name is a MASSIVE warning sign that she should not be in control of this money herself. For this reason it's imperative that she is aided in setting up a trust fund. 


Cant stress enough the importance of an attorney she can trust here. It is 100% worth the money to have a detached third party walk her through the legalities and be in her corner when/if this goes ugly.

In an interpleader lawsuit the insurance company  deposits the proceeds of the policy with a court and a judge determines the rightful beneficiary. This action shields the life insurance company from the losing party coming after them.
Ugh. All of these comments and people are assuming the wrong things. Insurance does not go through probate. There is no tax on it. It's a contract.



I would first of all, cut off that credit card, cuz mum's gonna run that sucker up and expect friend to pay it.




Other than that, good luck to your friend, if the vulture-people are already circling and the body's not cold yet, it's gonna be a helluva ride.
On the credit card I would NOT close it.  That will give a heads up.  Rather, cut the CL down to 250-500 dollars.  That way there’s no real risk but alarm bells won’t go off with Mom.


Guys this isn't an estate matter. 


To add to what others have told you, she would have had her will notarized and the signature witnesses by 2 neutral witnesses.  It is very important that those witnesses are actually neutral and are trustworthy.  I often suggest family friends with no stake in the will who are at least 20 years younger than grandma.  
Just going off top comment so it gets seen. Have grandmas doc write a note saying she is in a clear state of mind 





At 19, new bank accounts at a different institution in her name only is a must. 







She should: 

\- Move out, if it's not already the case.

\- Cancel the credit card.

\- Like you suggested, get her own bank account and keep it a secret.


\- Get a professional to help her with her finances.  She should NEVER hire a family member or a family friend.  



Lots of good advice, but would also add that your friend should learn "No" is a complete sentence.  Sounds like her Mom tries to bully her and learning to just refuse, and you don't have to give an explanation, can be a life saver for your sanity because individuals like that will use anything and everything you say against you and try to twist it.
Cancel the credit card. Open one of your own in ONLY your name. Then freeze your credit. It is not the child's responsibility to provide credit for their parents' spending habits.
Jesus...  reading just the first part in the feed, I thought this was the beginning of an /r/nosleep story about something awful.  Way worse that it's real life.  



&#x200B;



I would definitely do everything you already covered, I would also keep a close eye on that credit card her mom currently has. If the drama is already starting, there's a decent chance the first thing mom will do after Grandma passes is max out that card, justifying it as 'unfair' that your friend is getting the pay out, or that 'she can handle it'. It'll very likely be a good idea to close that card.


Also check out the windfall wiki, and look into retirement accounts. At least some of that money should go into something like an IRA. How much depends on her situation and how much the payout will actually be.



Seems like a good idea would be to do what the top comment suggests, by having grandmother declared legally competent to make this move, and then having the money put into a trust estate that paid a specified amount every year--that way neither OP nor her Mom can do too much damage, and the money can grow over time and OP's Mom will be out of the picture in a decade or two.
OP, tell your friend to consider closing the credit card if she continues to be angry. It’s a way for her to spend as much as she wants thinking “I’ll get what’s mine through this”!




If, as post implies, grandmother has not named friend beneficiary but there is a named living beneficiary, $ will go to current beneficiary.

If current named beneficiary is deceased, $ will go to estate.


Family relationship issues are far beyond any advice I can give. Maybe tell your friend some random internet stranger suggested she talk to grandma about the situation and honor her wishes. Maybe grandma wants friend to put everyone on an allowance, maybe grandma wants to pay for her college, maybe grandma wants her to change her name and move to a country with no extradition to get away from the family toxicity. 
I would suggest putting the money into some sort of an investment account, IRA etc.  This way the money is tied up, and cant be pulled out and used by anyone other than your friend.  IF your friend does decide to pull it out of the account before retirement, she will get hit with penalties, tax implications etc. so the incentive is there to keep it untouched until she is able to withdraw on it later in life.

This will: 

1) Put a safeguard of sorts on the $$ ensuring it cannot be easily touched by anyone other than your friend. Its always nice to have banking regulations and the law on your side. Fraud and Theft charges are a big deterrent to anyone trying to get at the funds.


Life insurance is typically used to help pay for funerals and then support survivors after death. Friend should not give any family members money, but might consider helping pay for the funeral to ease the burden on the rest of the family and forgo some resentment. The amount Friend should contribute to the funeral depends on how much insurance pays out. 

At 19, she should use the money to build a tidy savings account or pay for college. If it's a very large sum of money Friend should contact a financial advisor.
As usual, given we are talking about hundreds of thousands here it is well in your friend's best interests to invest the $2-3k necessary to hire a decent financial attorney who is going to ensure she sees every penny of it.
Get an accountant and be good friends with the lawyer. They are her friends now. 

But if he's not in debt, and he's OK financially, this may not be necessary.
With parents like that, I'd flat out lie about the amount she's getting, keep a separate account and put the most on it. And use the other to pay off the credit card and immediately cancel the credi card after. Maybe give a little bit of it, even though they dont deserve it. Just make them feel like you've given all you can. Honestly just lie because honesty will not go over well with greed.
1. Close the mother's credit card. 

My advice to your friend.  Consider the following, in this order.





Get an account at a bank with no connection to mom, and good fraud protection policies.

Freeze credit.

Tell the family members that she donated all of it to a research foundation fighting whatever killed grandma. 

&#x200B;


Your friend should also go to one of Dave Ramsay's financial peace university classes in person because the whole thing about not enabling your relatives with money will help them a lot.
For a separate bank account: make sure your friend puts a note on the account when she opens it that withdrawals are ONLY to be made by HER, with ID. And do not, under any circumstances, tell the family what bank you used. Or straight up lie and tell them it's at Chase, but is actually at some small community bank.

Pro tip: Your parents know enough to reset passwords and generally get access to your bank account (birth date, mother's maiden name, last addresses, social security number, etc).

I wouldn't be surprised to see myself downvoted into Oblivion for this but teach your friend to put some of the wealth into cryptocurrency and then Keep it safe.


Your friend should disappear when the check clears 
As others have said, open a separate account that can't be touched. 




I've dealt with it before and it's tough. Good luck to her.

Most of this advice is good. I would just tell her that her decisions now will effect her greatly in life. Do what is best for her
That person is you. Stay focused and try distancing yourself 
There needs to be a life insurance where the beneficiaries are your roommates. Like an add on to renters. 



[removed]
Please read OP's clarification before commenting


https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinance/comments/86trpv/my_father_is_selling_shares_of_his_life_insurance/dw8h5cw/
The big risk you aren't mentioning is if the others decide to stop paying, you either have to pay it all yourself, or lose* the policy. 
Who is the beneficiary of the $300K policy?





That's not how investment return is calculated.  You have to consider the annualized return.

how is it possible to be 23, with no job, in college, and have $50,000? show us your ways master
The premium will keep going up - then what?  Run.
  
  
Tldr; talk to his insurance agent. This is worth looking into from a policy perspective as he may be shooting himself in the foot trying to continue with this plan.

Just send him 50 a mo and forget about a payout. 
[deleted]

Still, I personally would not want to enter into that gamble due to the inconvenience, the risk, and the potential family tension involved. I would try to find a company to by it, as others have mentioned. By buying many such policies and aggregating the risk, they are all but assured of a positive return, and your father gets money now, so everyone benefits. Otherwise, you are in the position of facing diminishing returns every month your father lives, which is an awkward position to be in at best. That seems like too high a price to pay for an investment with such a risky profile.


No offense but your dad seems... sketchy...
if you decide to do this, you probably need to talk to a lawyer to figure out how to get the money with as little legal challenge as possible.

my guess is a trust is set up and the policy pays out to the trust, with participating siblings receiving a share of that payout depending on what they put in. 
I think this question is above the pay grade of this sub, judging from some of the answers here.


OP, do not invest. I don't think this is good for you, your mental health, or your relationship with your siblings. Also, the premium is going to go up as you go, so you'll really have to decide if it's worthwhile for you and siblings to continue investing. 

I'd recommend dad get a policy that covers any funeral expenses and be done with it. 
If he isn't terminally ill, it would be a life settlement.

http://www.lisettlements.com/difference-viatical-life-settlements/

Big picture: What is life insurance?


Long story short? A person who isn't subject to "breadwinner risk" should not buy a policy to insure that risk.

These policies are generally really good when you're in your 20s and 30s because you can get a lot of coverage very cheap.


$600 year @ 8% investment returns X 40 = $155,434


NO NO NO NO.  HORRIBLE investment.  



Either way, the premium will continue to go up every year. Get out now and encourage your siblings to do the same. 
Can't you kids help your dad? Does it need to be a business transaction?

>

[deleted]



Unless your father had variable life insurance, which is unlikely considering the amount of the policy, something fishy is going on here. You would be better off taking your “share” and putting it right into the bank.

I'd be very surprised if the cost just goes up one time and then stays level forever.

[deleted]

Make sure that the premium isn’t going to continue increasing. 
How is the insurance company supposed to earn money on this? If they pay twice what they collected?

I'm so glad you backed out of this horrible situation! Best of luck to you!

Now that you're older, it's less of an issue.
Life Insurance is not an investment





Life insurance is to provide for your day after you are gone. If everyone is already provided for or providing for themselves then he doesn’t need more than like 10k for funeral expenses. 


Your family and your father would be far better off just having an extra $300+ a month to spend or invest. 


Can I buy shares of your dad?

In school for engineering yet has $50k saved. this is some first world problem bs right here. 
If your father has always been a good father, then yeah, you should do it, plus its only $50 a month, I know a lot of people wasting $50-$300 a month on other things.


That insurance company is truly advocating people to gamble with their lives. 




Trust me, if you suggest this plan to your father, your father will love it because it would show that his children have a united bond and a united bond among siblings is worth more than all the money in the world. 
Hahahaha what in America is this? 
[deleted]

There may be a surrender value as well, if the coverage was in force for a long time. 

One option to hedge the risk of your siblings not paying would be to talk to the carrier to see if you can split the coverage into distinct policies.

Ah, but there's an opportunity cost. What else could you be doing with $50 a month? $50 a month invested in the market for 40 years at 11% interest becomes $349K. 
https://www.investor.gov/additional-resources/free-financial-planning-tools/compound-interest-calculator

(The S&P 500 has returned an average of 10-12% per year over most 40 year terms)

Not to mention you have no control over that sort of "investment". If you say something Dad finds rude, Dad might change the beneficiaries of the policy without telling you.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Life_settlement
[removed]
I mean tbh if you're still in school for an engineering degree and somehow have $50k saved as a 23 year old, save it for the student debt you're about to be in. 

Two facts
Less than 2% of term policies actually pay out. They are not designed to be kept after a certain agreed time, it's designed to keep increasing.


Term policies should never be used for legacy planning due to the nature of the product. It remains fixed for a predetermined time, then increases to a point of diminishing returns.


And that's before you look at all of the drama involved with sharing the financial responsibility of someone's life policy (it's a shit show). 

[removed]

You know you could just take out a policy on his life...
[removed]
Would this basically be a tontine? 



In case you have a TVM calculator nearby, use the following:

* Rate: 7
* Periods: 40




My parents had small policies for their burial and your father should look into that and make one of his children the responsible party and the policy should be for 25k or less payable on death.. not term.


[removed]




Buy all the shares and then maybe he has an accident? 
While the answer to this question does depend on some factors not mentioned in the original post, we do have some helpful information on life insurance as well as other types of insurance:

- [Wiki on Life Insurance](https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinance/wiki/insurance)

You can get a $250,000 term policy for $20 a month, as long as you are in good health at AIG. 

Edit: I would not be paying $18 a month for a $25,000 policy.
Talk to a Fiduciary that specializes in Life insurance, or at least deals in it. Fiduciaries are legal mandated to be on your side, compared to a broker. 






Also whoever said that the policy wouldn’t be taxable because of negative gain clearly doesn’t understand how whole life grows cash value. A policy that old literally can’t operate at a loss and still be a whole life. 

Also if you don’t like paying it - ask your company if there’s a date in the future when you can stop payment and have the cash value pay the premium for you for the rest of the policy life (that would be when you hit age 100). 
Term life insurance you can get relatively cheap for 20 years and a big payout, this would be to cover your mortgage and provide for you family if the main breadwinner were to pass away. 

Whole life depends on your financial situation. You have anyone that helps you with your finances? CPA? Financial advisor (fiduciary)? Etc. 


Truth is you're not providing enough info. 

Health is always the number one factor (outside of cost) in determining whether you should get some life insurance.

If you're uninsurable this may be your best bet at some burial coverage.  

What about if you're in good health? If so, I'd apply for 1 mil in 20 year level term now while you can.

If you're female, you could be paying under 40/m. If you're male, under 50/m.


Yeah, you don't get anything if you survive the 20 years but that's kind of the goal, right? I tell all of my clients who are young, in good health, and have the financial means to apply for 1 mil in 20 yr term. Why? 


2. Will pay off most family's debts.

3. After debts, there may very well be enough left over to jump start a legacy, fund college, start a business--all in your neame. You can help your family live comfortably for the foreseeable future.



TL;DR - Consult with a financial planner on your whole life policy. You might find that it can be super beneficial to you and your family in the long run.

With our whole life policy, we can put additional in to it above and beyond the premiums. The money grows tax free, and can be loaned back to us tax free, with anything still owed coming out of the guaranteed death benefit.



All that to say; the right whole life policy for folks in the right financial situation can be a huge boon. There's a lot of scummy insurance sellers out there, but we got ours through our fee-based financial planner and have been quite happy with it overall.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

The chances of death between ages of 20 to 40 is 1% and 20 to 50 is 2% in the United States per 100,000. Think about all the money you have poured into a policy that pays out $25,000 when it matures - a plan that is nearly pennies in your old age. Your returns despite taxes would be better served by investing in the S&P500 imo.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;


Edit:  Make sure you have another policy in place BEFORE cancelling this policy.
Used to work in life insurance.....

I'd ask to see if they have a "reduced paid up" option. That will make the policy "paid up" so you don't have to pay $18 a month anymore, BUT it will reduce the amount it is worth.

Also ask about the "paid up" date and the "maturity" date. The maturity date means they will pay out the 25k even if you're still alive (it may not be within your expected lifetime) and the paid up date is simply the date that you will stop paying the $18 a month but will still have the 25k covering you.


OP. Please don't listen to a lot of the people on here.






Whole life policies are a waste. Invest that money instead. 

In general, I avoid whole life. Term is the way to go- way cheaper. Whole life is often pushed as an “investment.” My philosophy is that insurance is insurance and investments are investments. Insurance products have so many baked in costs that you will always have a pretty severe performance drag (see annuities). Get some cheap term and increase your contributions to your employer plan. The term insurance provides safety for your family if you pass away during your prime earning years and once you are “out” of the term, if you have done a good job of investing you will be self insured. Be sure to have all your beneficiaries properly designated 

You'll pay the taxes on it from the money that you get, then drop the rest into an index fund from vanguard, where you'll get a normal ROI.

unless you've already maxed out everything else that you can possibly max out, while life is trash.

To echo others... I had a similar plan my mom opened when I was a baby and "gave" to me after I finished college. Was paying ~$300/yr for 2 years until I learned more and then cashed it out (about $9k... you will also have to pay tax on any gains) and opened a $250k 30 year term policy for a lower annual payment.
Assuming a 5% interest rate, it will be worth dropping the policy as long as you live another 300 months, so for you that would be age 59.  At 2%, you’d have to make it to about 80 for dropping the policy to be worth it. Keeping the policy would be a reasonable decision, albeit more conservative than I would be. 

Your parents are dope, first of all.
I would 100% keep it.

A whole life can be like a bond fund with the fees coming out in the beginning like class A shares.


I too am 36 and in generally good health. 










Have you considered a term policy instead?   When I started having children I put a 2mm policy for 20 years on both myself and my wife. (Figuring in 20 years I should be retirement accounts etc to help if either of us passes + kids will be grown).  It’s like 60$ a month 
I have almost this exact scenario.  Typically, these have a dividend, and you can choose to apply this to the premiums.  Mine is on the verge of basically paying for itself at this point. 


If you don't have other life insurance, however, I recommend getting some level term. 
Don’t forget, you’ll have to pay taxes on that money.  Might as well let it ride.

If you didn't own this policy, would you spend $4200 right now, plus $18 per month until you die to guarantee your family $25,000 if/when that happens?


The answer is it depends.  Is the whole life policy growing and earning a decent interest rate?  If it is then the $18 might be an ok investment but I am guessing it isn't.  One option is just let the policy eat the cash value and leave it in place, as long as there is money in it it should stay in force.  Like others had mentioned you need more than 25k life insurance.  My wife and I are late 30s and each have 1mil that we pay around $100 a month for.
I work with whole life products and there are most likely some benefits that you should consider as well.



Lastly, if u happen to have purchased disability in your whole life policy then what this means if you ever disabled, the premiums stop and the policy will continue to both appreciate in value and generate dividends.

Edit: Feel free to ask any additional questions as well.

Edit: my boyfriend works in life insurance and I've seen the rates, and have learned the stats. Even in 5 years that will barely be enough to bury you. Definitely best if you keep it. 



&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;


Cash out and buy term life through Costco. It will be almost 21 dollars per month for coverage of $500000
Insurance seller here. 

Insurance policies should not be “investments” .. also you can get better insurance for a better price. 




The parents pay for the plan. The premiums they pay for the pitiful plan (25k, 50k, whatever) add up to be the "cash value" payout. So at any time, you can recoup your costs and get that money back, minus interest, inflation, etc. 

What's good about the plan is that you can add to it periodically to boost the payout, and it ***never expires.***

You are paying the premiums now, yes. But when those premiums are paid, you continue to have that insurance, at whatever the value is. 



And re-upping at that age will be an extremely bad financial decision. 



The other caveat is that you'll ALWAYS be able to add to the policy, regardless of health. If you are unhealthy, this is a HUGE deal. If you're healthy, or VERY healthy, this isn't as good of a deal because you don't get preferred rates based on your health, only the standard.

This is for State Farm. 

Id recommend pulling the money out. You might have to pay taxes on the gain, after your back premium payments are subtracted.  Than I would look at a term policy of 30 years. Assuming you are in good health and a non-smoker, you could be looking at $500k worth of coverage for around $40-$50 a month.  Going this route might be a better option for you.





-Research the company. Top companies like New York Life, Northwestern Mutual, USAA give good cash growth and healthy dividends. This makes it so that you honestly make out better than a traditional savings account if you hold the whole life for long enough. It is an investment of time though; you need to really wait until after the break-even year to see legitimate growth. 


I would keep it, you never know when something is going to happen ,and if you become uninsurable , your kids will at least have something to help bury/you and maybe have a little inheritance. Don’t be foolish and cash it in. You owe it to your children. 
As others have mentioned, cash value life insurance can be a great place to put your "safe" money.  Let that cash value build and one day when you have a major capital expense you can take a loan out on the policy to effectively finance the purchase.  

You’ll never be as young/healthy as you were when the policy started. It’s guaranteed your eligibility forever. Keep paying, supplement with term.

See if you're able to do a wash loan with the policy. If you can youll be able to pull the money out tax free. 


One thing to be weary of is that insurance companies have recently gone a little crazy with their illustrations. Though I would love to see clients get an average of 6-10% annually from their IUL policy, they are more likely to get closer to something in the 4% range. 
WCI has a good article explaining whether or not you should dump your policy, and how to do so.

https://www.whitecoatinvestor.com/how-to-dump-your-whole-life-policy/

Sales agent here. Parents and grandparents buy whole life policies on their kids for the purpose of having something permanent and also to cover their end for final expenses should the child die before them. Keep it man it's only $18/mo and think of it like you don't need anymore burial plans. But by all means don't let it be your only life insurance. Get a term as well.


I would meet with a financial rep to review your situation.
Was it a headstart policy? If so, you should be able to convert it for more coverage. Worth looking into. 

I sell life insurance and one of our policy's is a headstart for children. It starts at 25,000 dollars and when you take over the policy you can convert it at the age of 25, 31, and so on. And it could be advanced when you had kids and got married. The total amount it could be advanced to is 175,000

[removed]
Same question.

I'm 48, been paying $188/ month into a $100k policy at State Farm for just over 3 years.  Current value is about $3100 after paying in almost $7k. Does that sound right? 


Whole life is far from the best insurance.  If you die, the cash value of the policy typically goes to the insurance company.  You should plan on buying term once you’ve bought a house, settled down, and have dependents. 

Until you have others depending on your income you dont need insurance 
No, keep it!  You own it and it keeps you insurable as you age.
You can borrow against the cash value, not pay tax and use the money. Or just not pay the premiums and for most policies that is also treated as a loan, read your policy.





It depends on your situation. If it's not a burden to pay that, I like the suggestion of others to use that as a kind savings account for your final expenses.  Otherwise whole life policies are a good way to pass down excess wealth after you die. While that's nice, that's not a primary financial concern for most people.  Personally I'd cash out.




I would see if there is a rider in the policy to over fund it (the more you put in the more you have in it that is growing interest). Plus when you have a nice big balance you can use it to lend yourself and pay yourself back. The nice part about that is that the interest you pay is to yourself so it's essentially interest free and you are then your own lender. 

Most people who have already maxed out their Allowed IRA contribution can use this as an additional investment that is safer than the stock market. And if you can afford a little more risk then you get a VUL which is like a whole life that is in the stock market. Higher interest but it's in the stock market so more risk. Both are not taxed on the gains (paid with post-taxed Income). 


P.S. always have term life for true life insurance coverage. It's usually pretty cheap and your work policy will never be enough especially if you have kids.

Do the math before moving ahead. Ask the insurance company for a cash value projection. It’s an old policy and while not a great investment when your parents bought it, it may now be making money. Annual premium is 216. Will it increase more than 216 each year? How much so?

Buy other insurance to fit your needs but this old policy may be a money maker. 

But to others comments  25k isn't going to do much but pay for your funeral costs....soooooo


Put the money in an IRA




Life insurance pricing is based on age and health.  Should something happen to make you uninsurable and you've cashed out your coverage, that's gonna suck.  Also, if you make it to say, 65, pretty much the only insurance you'll be able to get is whole life.  At which point you may well be paying 300+ per month for the same 25k benefit.

Based on the info you provided, if the policy date is prior to 2000, you probably have a taxable gain
Cash it. I have clients that pay 20 a month for 200k term. Go spend the money on something you need. 


- [Retirement Accounts](/r/personalfinance/wiki/index#wiki_retirement_accounts)
- ["How to handle $"](/r/personalfinance/wiki/commontopics)






Also you may only need 20 to 25 years of coverage, not 30 years.  Once the kids are launched, would you be able to live on a single income?


* Mortgage to be paid : $105K
* Let's say husband will need $60K net a year and if he takes home $40K then the shortfall is $20K per year times 16 years is $320K
* Total insurance needed is $475K since you have $100K then an additional $375K sounds like a good number.

That is for you only, then do something similar for your spouse.

Without knowing any details about his health, that sounds high. I encourage you to shop around; rates for the same product can vary significantly across insurance companies. I highly recommend using this website to compare prices: https://www.term4sale.com/

General recommendation is 10-12 times each persons income on theming level term life insurance, probably for 20-25 years given the ages of your kids.
Try to calculate how much you would need to cover costs without your spouse from now until your kids turn 18. Maybe also factor in a break from work for a period of time assuming the need for time to process the death of a spouse.
Couple thoughts.   


The way I calculated mine was, how much does my wife need to cover expenses + increased expenses (maid service, childcare, etc.) *assuming she works*.  So your very first question is, if your husband passes, are you going to continue to work?  If yes, determine what not having his income does to your situation.  If you're NOT going to work, you've got to cover both salaries for life.    




If the mortgage is paid off would the surviving spouse be able to cover childcare and other bills on their salary alone? If so, then you only need enough to pay off the mortgage, pay for the funeral, and pay for maybe a year or so of time off to grieve.
Three pillars:

1. Enough to pay all debts including mortgage.
2. Enough to pay for both kids' college education.

&#x200B;

I have a $1.4M Policy for about $850/year, maybe you can get better rates.

&#x200B;

For estimating the amount, if I had young kids I would use the following:

Amount of all debts



&#x200B;

For explanation of my policy amount, I own real estate with a total debt owed (sum of all mortgages) of around that amount so that policy would clear all debts and leave the paid off assets to my beneficiaries.





Also, contractually, the policies are virtually identical.

My opinion only, based on limited experience:


\- I know someone who acts as an expert witness in life insurance.  He's told me off the cuff that Desjardins and Ivari are good for their business.  Treat this as gossip, I have no indication that there's any truth to that.  And I happen to own an ivari life insurance policy. 


A far bigger factor is the age of the policy.  Any claim on a policy < 2 years will go through the meat grinder by the company, and many < 5 years.  That will make more difference in how your claim is treated than the company IMO. 


Which company was a PITA?

Also - do you have an insurance broker yet?  Find someone who deals with all the big companies and who has a lot of experience - they should be able to help answer your question.
I'm not too sure if I understand your question correctly but I'm gonna go based off of your opening question. 

1. it's very subjective to which company will give you the best claim process because at the end of the day it's up to the agent/broker that's providing you with the service 
2. I definitely recommend someone that's based locally regardless of pricing; at the end of the day if you're based in Montreal and your agent is based in Vancouver, they can't provide you with service readily even if we are in the digital age

Read Preet Banerjee’s book “Stop overthinking your money”. His treatment of why and how to buy insurance is excellent
Three steps.

1) figure out how much you need.  For family, you're normally replacing a % of your income, over a period of time.  Google income replacmeent calculators, and try figuring 60-80% of your income, for time frames between get the kids out of the house, and when you turn 65 (when your income ceases).  That'll give you some numbers on 'how much'.


3) now you know how much and what type.  Last step is pick a company. Call a couple brokers, tell them how much and the type, and see what companies they recommend. Pricing wise, you can also find websites with online life insurance quotes.

Oh man, this sub. What's with the cascade of downvotes? This is one of the single most-asked questions (and least-understood concepts) on this sub. 


>Reserves:




>Cash Surrender Value


Seems like if you are in this policy the CSV results in something like when one has an investment account and it has a deferred sales charge. Exit early and you'll have to pay for the services provided without going to term. How am I wrong about this? How is it different?



- As you retire, instead of taking out the money, get a secured line of credit against the balance. Use that instead.

- Upon death, pay off the loan, but keep the remainder in the fund for tax free transfer to a beneficiary.


Is this true? Perhaps you can discredit or expand on this?
A very informative post - all of the details seem accurate and more in depth than I could explain. 

Sweet. 



**2)** The image link you provide and your explanation -  how high early premiums set aside extra money to cover the higher mortality costs of later years - is probably understood and accepted by most people.  But that very understanding then gets violated when you start talking about the CSV.

Using the logic of your image and explanation, the CSV should grow in the early years with the initial prepayment to fund future premiums.  This is the accumulating difference between your red/black term premium line and the orange permanent line.


But that all contradicts the claims that the policies can be thought of as just like TFSA.  The claim that the CSV grows and continues to grow with time, until it equals the Face Value at death. The claim that the CSV is always about equal to the Face Value discounted back for yet-unpaid premiums and time.  So if you want to let your policy lapse you 'get your money back'.  

[/u/Alsadius point 1a)](https://www.reddit.com/r/PersonalFinanceCanada/comments/507pq6/anyone_know_the_mechanics_of_whole_life_insurance/d71zicy) .."It's a flat number that increases annually when dividends are paid, as well as some guaranteed increase according to a contractual schedule."  And yourself above "CSV - . Why is it a bad thing? You cancel your policy and they give you money back."

It must state in the contract exactly what the CSV will be, or provide some calculation for it.  But no one seems to have read the contracts.  And so we get completely contradictory information.   Do all contracts state exact $$ values of the CSV for each age?  Or do they not?  Does the $$ increase and continue increasing?





No one has ever stated or implied that the CSV of Whole Life is a different animal from the CSV of Universal Life.  Their concepts must be the same.  The media makes clear that there are piles of UL owners who find they have $0 CSV in later years, and are forced to pay huge premiums to keep their policies alive.  So does that mean there will be no funds to pay the face value on death?  Of course not.  

**5)** And of course none of this top post addresses the supposed 'reasons' for buying this policy.  All the reasons are bogus per my many arguments.  Yet none of my arguments has been countered except as personal smears and downvotes.  [(1](https://www.reddit.com/r/PersonalFinanceCanada/comments/53lahe/life_insurance_on_a_parents_head/d7ux7at), [(2](https://www.reddit.com/r/PersonalFinanceCanada/comments/54ilfv/universal_life_insurance/d82q1wq), [3)](https://www.reddit.com/r/PersonalFinanceCanada/comments/5392ae/to_keep_or_cash_out_an_universal_life_policy/d7ryubt), [4)](https://www.reddit.com/r/PersonalFinanceCanada/comments/52xc4q/life_insurance_help/d7p97oa), [5)](https://www.reddit.com/r/PersonalFinanceCanada/comments/517h6y/met_with_a_life_insurance_broker_and_she/d7atmfe), [6)](https://www.reddit.com/r/PersonalFinanceCanada/comments/4v3dqq/great_west_life_life_insurance_as_investment/d5w1t4v), etc etc. 
LPT - if you are young and have no dependents, life insurance is unlikely to be good for you... don't get caught up on the payout and security sales pitch...
>Cash Surrender





Couple of thoughts for anyone who's in a similiar situation (in addition to what /u/Palestrina mentioned).



That's an ...interesting scenario.

Suppose it just rererereaffirms the importance of getting all your Ts crossed and Is dotted and making sure everyone is on the same page, but I'm curious  to read those links later. Thanks Palestrina!
You should post this to /r/law to see how the lawyers who frequent that sub analyze this (lots of American lawyers there).
There are some seriously concerning implications with this decision, and there are memos flying all over the place in our family and estate groups. I agree with the dissent.
Wow, Very surprising conclusion to that.
Thanks for sharing, that is wild.

If not - Should they be?
Lol
Makes sense, the ex-wife was paying consideration, lending significant evidence to the existence of a deal.
