Yes, people do this all the time.
Before I got married, the small amount of life insurance offered through work, along with my 401k, all had a local animal shelter as the beneficiary.
There's three parties in a life insurance policy.
1) The Buyer -- I.E. Who is paying the policy
2) The Insured -- I.E. Who the policy is in-force ON (in this case, you)
3) The Beneficiary -- I.E. Who gets your money if you die
I have a $250k life policy. My life policy is currently set to cover the remaining cost of my home, vehicle and "funeral expenses" if I die. From there, the rest of the money is set to go to (insert charitable organization here).  When I get married and start having kids, that will change to go to my family.
It’s a juvenile term life policy, right? Likely not worth anything. But you can always call TA and ask, it may have an ROP (return of premium) rider but also not likely since ROP riders are fairly new (within the last 15 years) thing... an ROP rider would mean anything your parents paid in premium would be returned to you since the policy was not used.
I'm not in the insurance industry in any way but I'm pretty sure I can answer this one...
Life insurance is meant to cover expenses from the loss of a loved one or provider and to replace their income, pay off debts, things like that.  It isn't usually meant to be a windfall for relatives so they "hit the jackpot" if you die.
There's a secondary beneficiary, usually in the case of multiple deaths (ie: both parents killed in a car wreck at the same time).  That is usually the children of the insured.
* Being overinsured: Say you make $50k/year and you want a $10-million policy. That's going to raise some eyebrows at the insurance company and they'll want to know why you want such a large policy.  Now imagine that you somehow do get such a large policy, fake your own death, and move out of the country.  Or your kids or spouse decide they want the money more than they like you, and murder you for the insurance money.  Having huge policies like that incentivizes bad behavior.
Personal choice. Everyone views life differently. I look at my daughter and ask myself how can I make her life better, easier and ensure stability for her future.
You’re absolutely right. Unfortunately from my experience many people don’t think about this. Also, when insurance agents meet with people to discuss life insurance, their advice usually isn’t to “buy as much as they can to set their kids up”. Sometimes, after covering their debt and funeral expenses, they are already dealing with an “expensive” policy. I always ask if people want to leave any money to their kids, but it never seems that big of a priority when they realize they have $250k+ worth of debt that needs covered first. I hope that helps a little. Life insurance is a touchy subject for a lot of people, and many people don’t see the value in it. Not to mention, most people can’t afford to drop the monthly payment for $1 million dollars worth of life insurance
I'm a life insurance actuary, so I can answer any price / probability related questions you might have.
By the time most people realize they need it. It’s a lot more expensive.  Maybe my friends are all idiots. (They are) but still when I was in my 20s none of them gave a shit a life insurance.Now that we’re all in our mid 30s I’ve gotten a few more questions about it. 
I got a policy in my early/mid 20s for a higher amount. I figured out what my salary would be and if I died how much my spouse would need to maintain our lifestyle without my income. 
When I upped the amount past a certain point it actually got cheaper for whatever reason. Also I took this out in my 20s wasn’t a smoker and had zero health problems, so it was pretty cheap for term life anyway.
One reason is cash flow. Another being you can't just buy as much life insurance as you want.  Someone that makes 50k a year and is in there 40s won't be able to buy 20 million of death benefit. There's also different types for different reasons. Sorry if this isn't specific enough but I think it points you in the right direction.
I actually don't have a dime of life insurance in myself as I have no need for it.
Not sure what the first one is, but the second is called fully underwritten.
first one sounds like Mortgage Protection through the banks - instant approval. Not sure what other term there is (our company does not do that)
The former process is sometimes called "retrospective underwriting" and sometimes "post-claims underwriting".
I am so sorry to hear of your situation. 
Do you mean national education association life insurance? If so, they have a year of grace when you are not employed as a teacher/paying dues during which maintaining life insurance through the group term plan is allowed, but I am not sure on how that works in retirement. If it was available, in order to keep it, she would have had to maintain her membership in the NEA as a retired member of the state chapter. Or through the NEA directly as a reserve member for more limited benefits. 
She would have had to "port" her coverage (often Term life has a portability option but the employee must request that he/she take the coverage AND must pay the premiums). In most cases Term life that is ported can be continued, as long as premiums are continually paid, until the person reached age 65 or SS Full Retirement Age, whichever the specific plan denotes. 
Thanks for doing the right thing.  I know it must have been daunting.
That is awesome!  I guess I am lucky that I have never worked for an insurance company that did something shady on a consistent basis (maybe now and then with a trainee or something).  Insurance companies can have a generally negative reputation, but thank you so much for doing your bit in trying to keep things on the right track!
Good for you. I just changed policy for car and home and it took me 5 phone calls and a month of waiting before I was finally able to cancel my policy with mercury. What a horrible company they even were going to cancel my policy for non payment even though 2 weeks before that I had started the ridiculously long deletion policy. I think all insurance companies should be audited.  
I had one of those old, first generation UL policyholders come into my office several years ago. They had the old, hand drawn illustrations. "VANISHING PREMIUMS" it said. Cash values were illustrated at 15 fucking percent annually. They showed cash values offsetting the premium in like 6 or 7 years or something.
So many people had those implode with loans outstanding. Can you imagine how pissed you'd be? You take a 25,000 loan out of this UL policy that your agent said would grow at 15% annually and that you'd never have to pay back, and then it terminates, and THEN you get a 1099 from the insurance company for that loaned amount. 
Actually contact Ohio’s insurance commission and file a claim with them. They will respond to you especially since his is a life insurance claim. If anything funny happened they will be able to help. 
I would send the detailed letter to the claims department first.  This type of issue of miscommunication is very common at the larger, international insurance companies and though it is a pain in the ass AXA has internal, state, and federal audits that they need to adhere to, so the paper trail helps them and you.  KEEP A COPY OF THIS, DATED.   
Simultaneously, file a grievance with your states insurance board, someone said Ohio.  KEEP A COPY OF THIS TOO.  
Give it 2 weeks and call AXA.  They will give you some answer.along the lines of, it could take up to 30days to process; but really you're reminding them of your issue.  Call AXA again in week 3, and again in week4.  Squeeky wheel gets the oil.  
The idea here is that your letter will cause them to review it, and the grievance from Ohio insurance commissioner will make them review and respond to your request fairly quickly.  
The advice you got from the AXA is good, and maybe someone made a mistake.  Write the letter and involve the state insurance commissioner.  Wait to involve the lawyer, bc they are going to do the above just charge you for it.  
Im sorry you have to go thru this. I just processed a policy from 1942. Just needed death certificate and some forms signed and notarized.
I don't have advice but rather a spooky coincidence. My dad died May 31, 2017 and my brother died on November 11th in 2008. I just thought that was interesting. 
Make sure you document all of your efforts, keep a log of all the dates and times you call and who you speak to. 
She will be awarded the benefit when she turns 18 years old. That money is being held until that time unless he specified with someone (a lawyer, the insurance company,...) beforehand that it was to be appointed to a trust or trustee.
I would NOT however, put them into another life insurance policy for her. Just put it in the 529.  Source: former Life insurance agent and still Chartered Financial Consultant. 
A whole life policy that has a large face value that is not paid up in full in a short amount of time likely isn't the best option for an average family.  You can likely buy 5-10x the face value in term coverage compared with what you are paying for whole life.
Personally, I have a wife and a young kid.  I'd rather have $1million in term coverage for 20 or 30 years than $100-200k in permanent coverage for the same monthly premium.
Your need for life insurance fluctuates throughout your life.  Almost nobody has the same needs at 20, 40, 60, and 80 years old. Whole life is just too inflexible to correctly meet your needs at all times.
Your whole life policy should be part of a larger financial strategy. You should probably have a little bit of whole life for final expenses, you should probably have a term policy covering big things like mortgages and kids college and debt, then you should have a 401k or an IRA that you are putting money into for investment. 
If your whole life product is covering ALL your debt and final expenses then I'd say, off the cuff yes you are doing it wrong. 
I'm 36 and an insurance sales person. What I did 10 years ago was write myself a whole life policy for 20k and then wrote myself a term policy for 250k. My intentions are, the whole life policy will forever be $26 a month. My 60 year old self (as someone else said) will love me for that. The same policy for a 60 year old male is about $113 a month if I sold it to them today at age 60.
My term policy is to pay off my mortgage, put kids through college (if i have any) and pay off debts. It's a 30 year term that has 20 years left on it. It costs me about $36 a month. 
Lots of advice in here, most of it is on point, I'll just chime in with a few ideas:
Life insurance should have a primary purpose of wanting the insurance aspect, growth of policy cash value should be seen as a side feature. That said, if you see the need for the life insurance aspect, getting a policy which you won't age out of, which locks in your health rating, and which offers cash surrender and policy loan aspects can be a great idea.
In my personal experience, whole life makes the most sense for a client around age 50-65 who want a 10-20k policy for final expense needs. For a younger person like yourself, I would discuss how much investing you're doing and would either present a term policy, with the idea that you'll make more investing the rest, or a universal life policy, which is similar to whole life but is more flexible. Policy loans and the ability to use deferred deposits to directly absorb a large windfall (such as selling a business at retirement) with less tax burden would be my main reasons for considering universal.
Your agent wants you to have coverage, and if something had happened one of you would have been in a much better place than if you didn't have a policy, so it's not like they did you wrong, but, you might want to consider quoting other options. To a person with only a hammer every problem starts to look like a nail, if whole life is all your agent can sell he might hype it more than if it was one of many options... Ask them! A good agent should be able to explain why they sold you something *in the context of all available options*, and if they can't, perhaps you should seek additional opinions.
Term life for when you have people depending on you, things like mortgages or car payments or have to feed kids.
Whole for when you have to pay for a funeral. Unless you want to keep a couple grand in today's money in liquid assets to pay for it.
Also why are you paying hundreds for a whole life in your 20s? You would need maybe about $100,000 both, and that is assuming runaway inflation and death by the age of 80. You could easily get away with $50,000. If you are that young, and healthy, you shouldn't have to pay a lot because the risk is lower.
Whole Life is not entirely a scam. it works for the right people which is generally people with money and then even if you are the right person for it there are really only a small handful of companies who provide a good whole life policy. In your 20's you most likely don't need whole life, especially if you have long term premiums and not a 10 or 20 pay which it sounds like you don't. You'd be better buying term that is convertible in a few years if you feel the need for whole life. My guess is you got pressured by your agent to buy this product and it's not from a company you want to have a whole life policy with.
Life insurance makes a lousy investment. But conversely, your investments make terrible life insurance. 
You ask an interesting question regarding transferring your whole life into a term plan. I'm really not sure. Convertible term is certainly a thing -- turning your term into perm -- but I've never heard of it being convertible from perm to term.  
A few of the insurance companies I've worked with would let you apply for additional coverage without having to go back through medical underwriting if 1.) your original plan was fully medically underwritten (i.e. paramedical exam, blood, urine, etc.); 2.) if you applied for the original plan within a certain time frame (i.e. 1 year ago); 3.) so long as the total insurance amounts were still within guidelines and not over (i.e. the max amount of life insurance you can get is based on,say, your yearly earnings multiplied by 30 if you're 35). Several insurance companies even have a program like this even if the original plan wasn't with them. 
Like Most People here said, It depends. And this is why having a trusted financial adviser is important. You should shop for one like you do a dentist, doctor, etc... Find one that gets you. Find one you understand and trust. Recommendations are good, but remember allot of people do not understand financial products, so have a conversation with your friends or customers that recommend them. Ask them question about what Mr./Mrs. X is doing for them, what their strategy is, etc... If the Financial adviser is good then his/her customers should be able to explain what he/she is doing for them at a minimum. Good Luck!
How long you pay it for? I have a 10 pay whole life and I might get another.  It is a safety net for the future, either myself or my beneficiary.  I am young, so I don't know what the future holds.  In 10 years I might be a millionaire or I might be dead broke.  I didn't want a policy I would pay until I was 99. 
There is a new form of life insurance that offers Living Benefits. That is it is possible to use without dying. A portion of the death benefit can be accelerated if a serious medical event happens. It can help cover the bills that your medical insurance doesn’t pay.  If your policy is still young, you may want to look at exchanging it for a Living Benefits policy. These policies are available in permanent and term.
If you DO decide to bail out of your whole life and get a term plan, all I would recommend to you about that is that make sure your term plan has "conversion options" on it (aka "convertible term"). Term policies with conversion options don't cost any more than term policies without conversion options.
You may have come to the decision you don't need permanent insurance right now -- and perhaps you truly don't -- but things can change in the future and it's good to have options. 
Basically a conversion option allows you to turn all or part of your term insurance into a permanent plan without health questions or underwriting. This is important because even though everyone plans to not need life insurance when they're in retirement years, it doesn't always work out that way.
To illustrate the importance of conversion options, take a look at [a 20-year term illustration](https://www.jrcinsurancegroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/Banner-Life-Insurance-500k-OPTerm-20-Year.pdf) (link opens a PDF file).
Go to page 5. Look at what happens to the annualized premium after the 20-year term expires. In year 21, the annual premium goes from $976 to $37,000. Obviously, that won't work. So if you find yourself in 20 years after your term expires still in need of life insurance but you also, for instance, find yourself with a health history of some sort (heart, cancer, diabetes, etc.) and can't qualify for a new life insurance plan, your conversion options could bail you out. 
I will read each comment thoroughly and talk with my husband. I checked the policy in details and I found that the face amount of the policy is about 30&#37; of the current value of death benefits. So it seems like there is a term insurance combined in the policy.  I will try to find a financial adviser whom we can work with in the long run! 
Just so much bad info on this thread. OP good luck if you take any of this advice.
Life isnt perfect and shit happens, the cash in the policy, the death benefit or the accelerated benefits will come in handy at some point in your life.
There are some advantages to whole life, but in general, it's more economical to keep your savings and your insurance separate. There's a reason insurers offer whole life, and it isn't out of the goodness of their hearts. Over the lifetime of the policy, they make loads of money in interest income off the money you stick in the "savings" portion of the account early. Not saying it's a scam though.
The problem with whole life is that it forces you to massively overpay for life insurance in your early years to subsidize yourself in the later years as you get old and more likely to kick the bucket. Except there's absolutely no point to life insurance when you're old if you've saved properly. So you're basically overpaying when you're young so that you can earn a rate of return less than the expected market return to buy a product in the future that you don't really need. Lots of negatives there.
Some people on here argue that whole life is a good diversification strategy alongside a proper investment portfolio because it offers a fixed return. It's safe to assume that these people haven't studied much investment or market theory and likely sell whole life on commission, but I encourage you to do your own research.
At this point I was just wanting to GTFO of there, but thought I'd have a little fun. So on my paper I wrote "because I like bananas and beer." Turned it in and left.
I got a call 30 minutes later inviting me in for a final interview, but I turned them down. 
It was insane. I'm sure that they called everyone, not just 5. And I'm sure they didn't read what I wrote because it stupid nonsense.
I cant remember the exact name of the company, but it was American Life or something like that and they sold the exact products you're talking about with same methods.
I worked for this company! They're very nasty and unpleasant. After doing it for a few months I quit and  worked a couple part time McJobs for a while. I did find out that I love working with policies, so I went into claims adjusting with another company and love it. If you're more interested in sales you might be happier in a brokerage. At least there your customers know they have insurance needs when they walk in the door.
This is why, if you ever want to sell life insurance, you should work for a mutual company. All the big companies that aren't mutual companies practice these tactics. They know only 5% are going to make a career out of it, they plan for it, that's what they want. They don't care about their contracted workers.
All the big, publicly traded life companies operate like this. 
If you want to sell only life, that is just the way the business works. If you don't mind doing P&C, then I suggest going with a captive provider that has a mutual life insurance company. Mutual companies have no obligation to shareholders, their obligation is to the insured. They also tend to take better care of their agents.
did this one have something to do with Banks?
I worked for a company similar to this. It was the worst 2 years of my life and I quit without having another job lined up. 
Run away. It doesn't get better at companies like that. Sweatshops like that are one of the main sources of the bad reputation the insurance industry can have, especially with the Life side of the business. 
With that in mind, there are a ton of insurance companies and brokerages that are very excellent to work for. Now that you have you license, I would start immediately trying to find another job. Maybe ask friends and family for recommendations on insurance companies they personally like to deal with? Chances are those will be at least decent places to work. 
Also, you may want to look into the P&C (Property / Casualty) side of the business. This is your insurance types for things being on fire or other people being injured (think home, auto, commercial liability, etc.). It is generally easier to sell this type of insurance, plus most shops will get you to start doing the processing and paperwork side of the business (on hourly or salary) to learn how it all works. Then you can move into the sales side if you want from there. 
I was a NYLIFE agent for 11 years.  It was a beating the 1st 4 years. I stuck it out on 100% commission (and residuals after a while).  got all my securities licenses and moved toward investments and financial planning.  Built up a pretty good client base and left to go to Morgan Stanley, where its less of a sales culture.  From what i have heard, almost all life insurance companies are the same situation.  If i had to do it all over again, I don't think  i could, but i am glad i am where i am now.  
Every agency/IMO/FMO is a little different and all have different marketing strategies (cold calling and using a deceiving script sucks, been there & done that).
This makes me mad because companies like the one you described and the one of the companies I worked with as well make a bad reputation for the entire industry.
Hold your head up and keep looking!   
You need to talk to an attorney about a special needs trust. Life insurance could be an important tool here but, if you leave it directly you could jeopardize his or her ability to receive government assistance in the future. 
Is it even possible to get a $5 million WL policy?? The most I’ve ever seen is a $1 million WL policy and the MONTHLY premiums were insane. And it’s true, agents get more commission for WL policies than Term. When I sold insurance, mind you I had independent appointments with the carriers and wasn’t bound to an agency, I was on a  110% contract. So if your agent or “financial advisor” is even on a 30 or 50% contract with whatever carrier they “advise” you to go with it would be an extremely hefty payday for them. Always be weary with insurance. Add up what you’d pay out of pocket over the life or expected (this is the hard part) life of the policy and see if the makes sense to purchase one. Only you can decide.
9/10 times it makes more sense to buy term life insurance rather than whole/universal. You can invest your money in other markets instead of letting the insurance companies invest it. Term is just so much cheaper
Also- tell no one about your windfall. Take care of your spouse and child. 
Let's take a look at the process. 
Step 0. Work with a qualified estate planning attorney that has experience working with special needs families. Not all attorneys are created equal so make sure you have a qualified attorney that specializes in these particular areas. Ask for examples of clients that have similar situations to your own and what they have done for those client. Work with your attorney (not the insurance producer/salesperson) to set up a qualified plan. In your case, setting up a trust is needed. You most likely will want an ILIT - irrevocable life insurance trust - that funds the trust which directs how those life insurance proceeds will be released and administered for your son based on his needs and your wishes. As one estate planning attorney I worked with explained to my client, a trust is essentially a person's way to control a situation from the grave. Their are countless ideas of things that can be built into the trust.
Step 4. Now you have to shop for insurance using the largest death benefit amount that you will conceivably want to purchase. With those death benefit amounts and your age, you are going to need to be medically underwritten. Your medical underwriting rating is going to largely determine your rate. If you're very healthy, the cost is much less than if underwriting determines you are unhealthy. See what offers you can get. This is why you get underwritten for the largest amount and based on final cost, you determine 1) how much you want to purchase and 2) how much you can afford. 
My LPT would be that the most cost effective option will always be to fund some portion of the death benefit with a term policy. Your need for death benefit decreases as you age, so you structure your purchases to diminish. Perhaps buying a 30yr term product and possibly some less expensive 10 of 20yr policies that strategically expire. **WHATEVER AMOUNT MUST LEAVE TO YOUR SON YOU PURCHASE IN A PERMANENT PRODUCT (whole life, universal life, variable life is riskier).** The rest that is a "want to" and not a "need to" can be purchased as the less expensive term product. 
Agents want to sell you 💯 permanent because the cost and commissions are the best for the agent. This is rarely the best solution for all but the most financially secure or adamant buyers (people that absolutely must secure a desired future outcome). You know you're getting worked if they don't suggest a blended approach. A blended approach would be using both term & permanent as well as accounting for your liquid assets. You know they're likely looking out for your financial best interest if they're suggesting staggering policies by cost/term. 
You can consider universal life insurance, since you can generally get a really high sum assured with a lump sum payment. Add it to a trust, as suggested by others. Ideally have the trust dispense the money in the form of a lifetime monthly annuity if you want to ensure he is secured for life. You might want to consider adding one of the properties mentioned to this same trust, to guarantee your son a roof over his head. It is also good to look at limited pay whole life, if that is on the table.  
Best of luck and well wishes to your family.
Term and invest the difference bud. Nothing beats it. 
A regular whole life policy has a fixed premium for life.  Since the death benefit isn't much higher than it started, the dividends have been either accumulating or being paid to him annually rather than being used to purchase extra insurance, so his actual net premium is about $361 per year, which is very good at his age for $50K in coverage.  (If the $2K is after dividends are applied, that is a different matter)
One option I often suggest to my clients is reduced paid-up insurance, where the policy is converted to a smaller one with no further premiums due.  This results in a permanent policy with a death benefit somewhere in between the current death benefit and the cash value, and no additional premiums due.  Unless you have urgent cash needs, it's a better option than cashing out right away, but it stops the premiums if that is important to you right now.
Probably can quit but tough to say without details. 
I would guess if has close to the death benefit in dividends. 
My mom also is roped into something like this. Except it’s 2000 a month. Idk why it’s setup like this. We’re trying to sort it and requesting illustrations for months.  
You have Term and Whole Life Insurance policies.  Term has a start and end date (5,10,20 yr) of coverage, and whole life just has a start.  The coverage is in place as long as the premiums are met during the years the policy is in effect.  Whole life follows you for your whole life.  Some of these policies actually pay out the death benefit if your father makes it to age 100.  It's also worth noting that finding a burial policy for someone your fathers age will be a challenge.  The rates and coverage amounts will NOT be comparable to his current policy.
Regarding this, let me make sure I've got this correct.  If your father dies tomorrow, the coverage is for 52k.  If your dad needs 37k for something, he can get that in surrender cash value. This costs him a total of $2000/year.  Let's not forget the dividends!  That makes his total expense for this policy $340 this last year.  That's $30/month given the dividend payout this year.  Otherwise it's $166/mo.  
Am I able to obtain a statement?  Yes.  Call the carrier.  
Is it possible to stop paying - YES!  I would suggest calling the carrier to find out exactly what will happen in this instance.   
Is it wise to cash out?  Possibly.  I know nothing about your situation.  
The policy will have all the information of payment schedules and surrender values, so you need a copy of that.  The carrier should have info on what your father paid.  
What is the purpose of this policy?
As far as suggestions: keep all of the policies in effect until you get a better understanding.   If YOU need life insurance for you and your wife, your premiums will most likely be higher, and the insurance companies will rate you or reject you given medical history. Scoliosis, diabetes, heart faliure, etc.
I know I've written a lot, but I want you to have as much information to make a decision.   
Ask yourself, what would life look like with this policy, and without this policy.
Why cash out now for 36k when he is 86 and will eventually get the death benefit.
You need what's called Guaranteed Issue Life insurance. The rub is, he's gotta make it two years. If you go with Gerber, and, god forbid, he doesn't make it 2 years, all premiums are repaid, plus 10%. After 2 years the entire benefit becomes available, essentially for as long as he pays the premium. Some people see this as rip, i assute you it is not. 2 year return of premium plus 10%,is way better than stuffing that money in a mattress, or any other 2 year vehicle i can think  of, after 2 years total payoff. This is pretty much his best option at thos point. Make him get it. You pay. If i may ask, what sort of cancer? 
First, I'm sorry. It's very difficult dealing with a serious illness of a family member. 
Second, I hate to be the bearer of even more bad news, but after a cancer diagnosis there's no way he will qualify for any kind of life insurance. Maybe if he beats it and is cancer free for a number of years, he might be able to qualify for sonething. But if he currently has cancer, he's uninsurable. 
Yes, there are policies out there that you can get without testing. But they still ask medical questions. Abswering truthfully will disqualify him, and lying would constitute "material misrepresentation" and void any claim if/when he passes. 
To all others reading this, this is EXACTLY why you have to buy life insurance before you need it. By the time you know you need it, you won't qualify. 
My only suggestion is to check and see if there's anything available through work or other large group he belongs to. I once had an offer for a small life insurance policy from work that didn't require anything more than paying for it.
Other than that, the insurance company is pretty good at guessing how long someone will live, so if they do issue you a policy, it will probably not be in your best interest.
That said, it doesn't need to cost a ton of money to bury someone:
Also, cremation is very inexpensive if he's OK with it. At the end of the day, everybody who's buried ends up in a box in a hole, and all the "extras" they charge you for are forgotten. I've lost way too many friends and relatives, and nobody who matters, will care if you got the cheap burial or the expensive one.
Also, cancer isn't a death sentence. In many cases it's curable, and in others it's slow enough that it doesn't matter in an elderly person. Lots of people die from cancer, but lots of others don't. 
How much are we talking here? Insurance companies have no interest in paying out a typical large sum if they are insuring a post cancer diagnosis.
So I used to sell life insurance, but don't any longer.  I just sell the prop and casualty lines, but there is a producer in my office who uses a pretty neat angle.  One of the biggest pushbacks she gets is that people get it through their jobs.  She will ask them what happens when they are no longer working for that company?  Usually people forget that the life insurance doesn't continue to follow them from job to job if they get it from their workplace.  
Now fast forward to today, there are a number of options such as a roth, 403's p, IRA's, and tons of competition for dollars. Now add the Internet, options for low cost term, and the pool gets even smaller. 
Educated buyers are not looking at whole life unless it is for a buy sell or estate tax purposes, but given the unified credit most couples can now pass nearly 11 million without paying a penny of estate taxes. Add to that the coverage inside most people's employer plans and the need for traditional life is extremely small, and therefor a very difficult sell. The are two types of people who buy whole life, the truly uneducated buyer or  very wealthy who buys a policy for tax or business purposes based on his advisors recommendation. 
The fact that people have low rates for the rest of their lives is nearly a moot point very few people keep their policies after 65 add to that that they are typically underfunded and end up lapsing...that is why the companies love, love, love, love whole life as like 90% implode. People essentially buy very, very, very, very expensive term. That is why corporate puses whole life.
Honesty seems to work the best for me. When I get a young couple in their 20s or 30s in my office that just purchased a home I ask them, "Now who is going to pay your mortgage if one of you dies?" It's kind of shocking and up front, but it makes them think about the future and taking care of their financial responsibilities while they still have children in the home. Also, I will prepare them a simple life quote and show them that 9 times out of 10 the discounts they receive on their home/auto will practically pay for the life policy itself so essentially, it's a free life insurance policy. Hopefully SF has some good life rates and discounts to offer for bundling, I'm not familiar with their life products. 
LDL can/will change depending on lifestyle/diet.  It sucks you got caught with a high LDL, but it doesn't make the test irrelevant.  Work on your health for next year and see if you can take the test again to lower your premiums.  
AIG uses the same labs as most doctors use...quest, labcorp, etc.
What was your total cholesterol and cholesterol ratio from doctors visit?
First of all, my condolences. If your mom was covered by a group life policy with a conversion right, then the group policy would likely have covered her for 31 days past the expiration of the group policy. It is in those 31 days that your mom would've had to convert to an individual policy without having to undergo renewed medical underwriting. 
Do this to find out to what extent the insurer was required to notify her timely of said conversion option. If you determine that she had received earlier mail(s) regarding the conversion option but not acted on it, then, unfortunately, she passed one day out of coverage...
Was she still employed at the time of her death?
Apply for Social Security Disability, if you have enough work history. If you do have stage 4 cancer, you are basically guaranteed approval due to compassionate allowance. After you pass away, your children will continue to receive your disability benefit until they are around 17. You really shouldn't need a lawyer to do it for you.  
My wife passed away from metastatic breast cancer two years ago, when she was 40. We have two young children as well. I applied online for SSDI faxed over her medical papers, and she was approved in a couple of weeks.
I am very sorry about your illness and hope you have pain free days.
You student loans won't pass on to your kids, so don't put any thoughts into those at this point.
Not a PF topic, but if you are as terminal as you say you are, think about the gift of leaving a legacy. You can always ask your physician for a referral to palliative care if you need help with any of this. 
Lastly, I have no idea if you would qualify or if this would work 100%, but what about buying a home and purchasing mortgage insurance? I am unfamiliar with whether those policies are any more or less difficult to qualify for than traditional term life. If it doesn't work out, the estate could simply do nothing and allow the property to go back to the bank.
My mother passed from cancer when I was 26. She too had stomach cancer that was aggressive. With chemotherapy I was able to spend another 3 years with my mother. After she passed I was left caring/paying for my brother's college and nursing school. I'm 31 now.  If there is anything that helped me through, it was mothers determination and strength. Her showing me that side of her and her non giving up mentality made me a stronger individual by mimicing my mother. I know​ this isn't much advice, but your strength will pass on to your children and the oldest one will not forget.
I hope you beat the cancer and I will have you in my prayers
Very sorry to hear about your situation.
We had a patient that was not accepted for science.  It was really sad as it was a personal desire of theirs to help.  
Also please see an attorney before getting married.   Many patients left their new spouses with lots of debt.   Life insurance policies also didn't like new spouses.   Hopefully they can help with your custody issues also.
In the meantime go ahead and print a copy of your advanced directives (end of life preferences for full code,  do not resuscitate etc..). You can find generic blank copies on line or check with the local hospital.   
Keep multiple copies.   
Wife is terminal.  Small kids.  Done a fair amount of reading on grief.  Consider the short book "parenting through grief."  It talks about how to help the kids and what pit falls to avoid.  Was advised that witnessing the dead body helps kids conceive of what happened.  The only advice from the grief center person I was talking with that leads support groups for kids with dead parents was "they need to see the dead body".  Our society is backasswards about death and likes to remove the body and rituals that really help people through grief.  We freak out at the thought and want the mess cleaned up too quickly.  If you donate to science, your kids may have a harder time understanding what happened if you disappear with no physical evidence.  Often kids think the person left or abandoned them and seeing the body helps them avoid concepts that you are walking around in the next city over.  Recall after my grandfathers death when I was eight that I imagined he was not really dead for a long time and just left to another country.  I remember day dreaming that for years.
Sorry this has happened.  You sound very grounded and this will help your significant other.  My wife is end game and still talks about what we are doing next spring for the kids bday parties.  This has helped her survive and put a good face forward, but also prevented her from doing anything along the lines of memories because she is in denial.
Casting your hands holding your kids hands is something we have done.  Search you tube "brick hand cast"
Suggest you get a therapist for kids in parallel of informing them of your fate.  They will have anxiety and not even know what to call it.  They will play and proceed as kids while potentially suffering anxiety.  All professionally authored books on the subject advise to be honesty and up front with kids.  They advise to say dead and not passes away.  Apparently it's important they understand you will be completely gone rather than flying around as a butterfly.  Kids don't fully understand death until 6 to 9 years old.  My five year old at the time said "how do you eat when you are dead"?
I don't have any advice really to give. I just want to send my sympathies. I lost my mother when I was eleven. I remember her telling someone that she just wanted to be able to raise her kids. I think you already know what's important here so I won't try and tell you what to do. You seem like a really good person and we all hope everything turns out for the best
My mother passed away and she had some investment accounts that didn't designate any beneficiaries. And to this date over a decade later, I couldn't access that money. I don't need that money and I felt it isn't enough to hire a lawyer to go through the hurdles to claim it. But it still hurts me that the money she worked hard for is just sitting there.
I can't help you much besides to briefly share a bit of hope. I got hit with a stg4 aggressive cancer diagnosis and it looked bleak on my end too. I was like you, very realistic and steeled myself to accept what life had handed to me.
It's one of the worst things you can in my opinion.
It's fine to prepare what you can concerning your kids and life stuff but you better segregate the parts of you that are gearing up to fight this and you need to get mean and nasty about it. Cancer is coming to take your life, family, everything away. Treat that as harshly as you would if some maniac were at your door with a knife wanting to hurt your kids. 
I watched a lot of people fall away as I endured treatment and I can tell you that attitude means a hell of a lot. You better stop thinking about how to donate your body and start thinking about how you are going to fuck this bastard cancer up. I'm not kidding you brother, it's time for you to decide because you can't win a fight being the nice guy.
I fought hard for months and I wear the scars for everyone to see but I'm coming up on five years past where my path should have ended. You aren't done my friend so take the time to feel sorry for yourself, cry, scream, whatever. Then put that shit into a box and hide it in the closet because it's time to fight, and this fight isn't won by those who don't go all-in.
I will pray hard for you my friend. I know you are scared. I still am too. 
Group life insurance can't discriminate due to preexisting conditions. Though the max benefit for a spouse is usually somewhere around $25K.
You won't be able to legally get any kind of life insurance with an existing potentially terminal diagnoses.  
I am ~40... back when I was 11 my father was diagnosed with nasal-pharynx cancer.  Very rare, extremely deadly.  They gave him 3 months at best.  They said it could go down hill fast any day.  He was 48 years old.  I was 11.  The weekend before his diagnosis we had a backyard landscaping project ongoing.  I was very tall and strong for a young man.  That summer I was 6'1" and still growing.  I didn't have a small frame either.  I was 190lbs no fat.  Felt great being like that.  My father was already settling down from his former athletic career playing soccer.  Nothing professional, but he did take it very seriously into his younger 40's.  
If I remember correctly we were spreading loam (dirt) for new grass and had seed and fertilizer.  That week we didn't get much done because he had a lot of doctors appointments.  They figured out what his "issues with his nose" he was having.  He came home, sat us all down and told us the truth.  It was a very emotional 10 minutes with him.  I laugh when I say that because he only spent 10 minutes with us being all emotional got up went in his bedroom asked to be left alone for a little.  He wanted to take a nap.  It has been a long week...
I know at this point you are waiting to hear the worst.  Instead, I can say just the opposite.  Today I'm 39 and he's 76 years old!  He still is going strong.  He is deaf, no saliva glands and his glands are messed up that regulate his feeling of being warm/cold.  BUT this man is still here.  They gave him 3 months at best.  
Regardless of all of that I just said.  It's not why I tell the story.  The reason I tell this story was that after 3 hours of napping, crying, and being angry he opened his bedroom door, called my name, and we went back out to the yard and finished the yard work.  He continued with life.  LIVE LIFE like you wished you always have!  Good luck on your journey.  Heaven is in the heart of your loved ones. 
There are some insurance carriers that provide Final Expenses policies.  They accept terminally ill applicants but they have strict rules.  
Dont  get  discouraged, depending  were  you  live  there  are  policies that  can  be  purchased  with  no  medical  exam.
IT's no fun having totally dependent children left behind no matter what their ages.   At my current old age, I am just expecting to die in a large bang when my body blows up in a ball of aging cosmic dust. I"m diabetic, have atrial fib and had a stroke, have high blood pressure, and don't expect to make it another year at this rate.    I'm sorry to hear about your illness, but getting an attorney to help you put a trust and will in order is important for your kids and whatever valuable you leave for them... providing for their future thru SSDI is very important. 
Life insurance actuary here. I'm really sorry for what you're going through. 
If you don't already have a policy, you're pretty much out of luck. There are some guaranteed issue policies out there, but they will be really expensive - young people who are applying for a guaranteed issue policy have a reason for doing it, and we price against that. Plus, most guaranteed issue policies will be a graded death benefit, where all you'd get back if you die in the first two years is whatever premium you paid in, which won't really help your heirs. 
I don't know anything about American finance and this will probably get removed but as I type, my Dad is sitting opposite me having breakfast. He was diagnosed 6 years ago, complete stomach removal and chemo. It was hard; he had a less than 5% chance.
But he's here today, he is retired now through age and enjoys going out with friends, walking his dog and swearing at video games. He can eat almost anything in tiny quantities - 6 meals a day. Other than that, all is normal. He's looking forward to grand kids.
My wife's dad died when she was two. She has never heard his voice, and you tend to forget what people sound like. 
My sympathies to what you and you family are going through. Many others have already suggest various ways to leave emotional legacies for your children, I think videos, cookie recipes, milestone letters, and everything else suggested is great!
Alternatively (or even additionally) have your hand(s) 3D scanned at a high resolution and then 3D print them. Any medium to large size university in your area should have the facilities, and would probably be willing to do it for free, or at cost of materials. And your kids could even be given the scan files one day too.
Have you checked with some major cancer centers like MD Anderson in Houston. I've heard they have programs for people with no insurance. Wouldn't hurt to ask. 
Just a note about having your body donated to science...many universities won't accept a body that's been ravaged by disease. Bodies donated to science are almost always used to help teach medical students the parts of the body, and therefore diseased bodies, obese bodies, or bodies deformed by accident/death are usually not accepted. Also, you have to die within a certain radius of the place taking your body. I looked into this at USC and UCLA.
Your children will each be eligible for a monthly check from social security after you pass.  They will get this until age 18.  My husband passed away from Lupus at 43 when our daughter was 6 years old.  I saved those checks for her and used them for a few special things, such as her horseback riding lessons and her first car.  I didn't need the funds to support her as I had a good income from my work,  so I saved them for special things and told her that these were gifts from her father.  It meant a lot to her.
My heart breaks for you OP. I don't have any advice to offer you, but as a mother of a 2 year old myself, I can't imagine how you feel. I hope your days are lovely and beautiful. 
I don't have anything to offer on the financial advice side, OP. I just want to say that I respect your ability to see through the emotional pain of your situation to look out for your kids. It might seem small but that quality shows the love you have for your little ones and it's admirable. I wish you the best and will send as many well wishes, prayers, and good thoughts that I can your way. Good luck my friend. 
Is there anything WE can do...? Do the kids and wife (and you) need / want anything in particular? 
I am very sorry for your illness. I have nothing to offer but the advice to fight on until your very last breath, and a poem:
Old age should burn and rave at close of day;
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
Though wise men at their end know dark is right,
Because their words had forked no lightning they
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Good men, the last wave by, crying how bright
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
And learn, too late, they grieved it on its way,
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sight
Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
And you, my father, there on the sad height,
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Rage, rage against the dying of the light."
I just lost my mother this year at the end of January. She went from nothing wrong, to what we thought was just sick, to dead within 4 months. (not cancer) My mother was my best friend and I was somehow blessed and lucky enough with 23 years to get to know her. We just didnt know she would be gone at all, let alone so soon and she was the type to avpid a camera. I have a lot of old photos, a few recent ones,  3 voicemails and a handful of old birthday cards from her and all of those are my most cherished posessions. Any memory you make for your children will be unfathomably special. 
I'm sorry I have no financial advice, and I hope a miracle finds you. I spent the last few weeks of my mothers life begging God and the universe to just let me keep her, but that just wasnt in the cards. I'll now be putting all that effort in for you and your family. Your post has totally shattered my heart but is in a strange way helping me face things. I'm so sorry this is something you're even having to think about and face. You will be in my thoughts every day and I hope this thread doesn't go silent. 
MD here. If you really are as sick as you say, just go to an academic university hospital. Even with no insurance, if you have a potentially undiagnosed terminal cancer, you will get the test done. Probably in leas than a day. 
I see people like this at least once a week. They get a diagnosis, get seen by a social worker, and are set up for whatever treatment regimen or palliative therapy is most appropriate. All without insurance.  It is ridiculous to think that you have to have insurance to receive medical care in this country. Even quick medical care. 
Just lost my husband to cancer last year (31 years old) we have a 3 year old. The best piece of video I have is him saying "Hi (daughter's name) I can't wait to see you. I miss you! Love you so much. I made him make the video as we were waiting for him to come home. Have comfort in knowing your children will be ok. They adapt. I think there are many good suggestions in here. My daughter gets SSID from my husband's death benefits...it helps us tremendously. <3 So much love to you and your family. You can always reach out. PM me if you want. 
Write a letter to both of your children. Give it to a relative to give them once they are old enough to really understand. 
When I was 8 my dad had quadruple bypass heart surgery. He wrote everyone letters just in case he didn't make it through. Luckily he did and luckily my aunt kept the letters because 9 years later he had a fatal heart attack. My aunt gave me the letter he wrote for me a few months after he died..  now that I'm an adult, it's one thing I will keep forever. I have it framed in my living room. I read it almost every day. 
Nothing like a thread like this to make me go to bed reexamining what I am doing with my life.
My mom was killed by a drunk driver when I was 4. What I really wish for, and get so excited whenever I find one, is pictures of us together. I have one that I own, and only a handful I can remember ever seeing.   They will treasure them forever.
I also wish I had things she wrote down. Ideas, thoughts. I know how other people viewed her, but I don't know how she thought about the world. With my dad, I save every card he's ever given me just so I'll always have it.
I would like to say if you go to the emergency room of local hospital with these symptoms they will get the testing done much sooner. And can start treatment much sooner. 
I had a similar situation with my father, he was sick, did not know primary source of cancer. His oncologist took forever doing testing outpatient. I was so frustrated and regret that we didn't just go to the ED sooner and manage things inpatient. By the time they figured it out he was too sick to be treated. 
I don't care, lie, say you don't have a primary care doctor. Just say you have this new onset stomach pain, significant weight loss, loss of appetite, feeling full with little food, nausea, vomiting-esp vomiting blood. If they scan you or hopefully scope you and can biopsy it then and there you'll have way more answers and could start treatment.  Go back multiple times until they do it. 
I feel for you. Keep your head held high and stay positive. I admire your dedication to your kids and your level headedness. 
I used to work for a company that served cancer patients specifically and, one of my direct family members is a hospice nurse; I mention this because most people assume a diagnosis from a doc of "6 months" etc means 6 months. The reality is, doctors are not fortune tellers. Many people who are diagnosed with these sorts of things live much, much longer than any medical professional would have guessed. Do not go off thinking you've received a set in stone death sentence, its not over till its over. 
As for the life insurance, Call companies and find out, if you get turned down everywhere look at guaranteed issue life insurance, which basically any one with a pulse can get. This type of insurance typically pays out at most 50k after a two year grade, before two years it pays out exactly what you have put in plus some interest. Like i said before, you dont know how long you have, could be 6 months could be 6 years, could be that your doc fucked up and what you have is very treatable. 
It seems like your financial questions have already been answered, but if you don't mind a piece of unsolicited advice, I would suggest leaving notes for whoever will be planning services after you pass away. We recently lost a family member to cancer who was very adamant that she would not discuss her funeral arrangements. This left our family to make a lot of guesses about how she would like her remains handled, how she be dressed, what music be played, and even what city she be buried in. It was a lot of stress at a time when we would have rather been grieving. If it's difficult to think about this, at least consider writing down some notes about your preferences for your SO to read later. 
I know someone else briefly mentioned getting power of attorney straightened out, and I would strongly urge that as well. Without power of attorney, it was incredibly difficult to get anything accomplished when my family member was unresponsive for days. It's simple to get and will save your SO a lot of stress. 
Never give up. John Bain was meant to die years ago. Yet due to how fast technology moves forward, the predictions were incredibly wrong. Stay strong friend.
Very sorry for you. Tears in eyes. When I was young my wife almost died from Ovarian Cancer. We had two young kids 3/4. We didn't know anything was wrong till she went down, Christmas Eve. Next day at hospital doc tells here it's stage 4. Go home he says and prepare. I freaked out. By weeks end I found a college hospital 100 miles away willing to talk to us. We signed her life away to have her admitted to a testing program. They almost killed her twice, but she got Taxol when it was highly experimental. She is alive 37 years later. Something they did (we feel) damaged her brain and she became schizophrenic . I stayed with her for years till she tried to kill me. 
You may not want to hear this, but your ex who is paying you $1600 a month in child support will get custody of your oldest child barring any major issues such a child abuse convictions.  He should be advised of your medical condition asap  so he can prepare to take over custody when needed. It's important for your child that you open these lines of communication so the transition is a smooth one.  Don't talk badly about your ex to this child.  It's really important.  So the main issue is the custody/guardianship of your younger child (which you said in comments below was not the child of your ex).  You should write a letter giving your SO guardianship of the younger child. With this letter he/she can then apply to the Courts for Legal Guardianship and even adopt your younger child.  It is sad that the kids will be separated but if your ex is paying regular and substantial child support, he/she is probably interested/caring for the child after you pass.  I'm so sorry that you are going through all of this. But you are wise to try to get your affairs in order in a manner that benefits your children.
I'm so sorry for what you are going through. I haven't had to deal with anything like this but my sister's husband died years ago and she received social security benefits for all 4 of her kids until they turned 18. Its hard to think of any life insurance company that would insure you with a terminal illness so you'd be better off to save your cash for your family's expenses in the future.
Good luck... I hope things work out. 
Not personal finance related, but please make videos for your kids. It will prevent that whole "I can't remember mom's face/voice anymore... :'(" after you're gone. All I have is a pile of nature pictures with my mom either in the background or half in-frame.
Not to be a Debbie downer- but just chiming in as a funeral professional here. You likely will not be able to donate your body to science unless you do a lot of work prior to your death.  It is far more difficult than you think it will be. If no one is researching your type of cancer locally, your body may not be in demand.  If the circumstances of your death aren't right, your body may not be suitable even if you find a program to take it.
Adding to this, you likely still need to have your death registered and for someone to handle the final "funeral arrangements" even if this doesn't include burial or cremation.  I'm in Canada so maybe it is different in the US but you can't just die without any record registration done.
Late to this so forgive me for that.
Insurance is a no go at this point, they only want healthy people, sadly.  What I can offer you is based on my own experience with my mother who passed away last year, 4 months after being diagnosed with stage 4 cancer.
That shit comes on fast.  Don't put things off until tomorrow that you need to take care of.  You've got two real options here.  Either you set things up so your estate is in order, have a will, etc.  Or you die purposefully broke and in debt.  The first option works if you have more than you owe, the second if you don't.  At the very least get all your finances in order and written out (bills, debts, income, etc).  Get any instructions you want done clearly, don't hide facts or details.
At some point you're going to need full time care, either in a hospital or palliative at home (e.g. hospice).  Start looking into that now for medicaid/etc to see what you can do, trying to make those decisions later sucks.  By the time we got my mom squared away with a care solution she passed away a week later and it felt like a lot of stress when she was most weak.
Talk to your kids, write stories, videos, etc.  Tell them and show them favorite things, places you liked, movies, shows, etc.  Give them something to think positively about you.
Above all else be forthright with things, I'm not saying to dwell on it but don't dismiss it either.  My mom lied to everyone about how ill she actually was until she was given 2-4 weeks to live (she lived for just over 3 weeks past that point) and it made things for everyone a shit show at times.
I'm amazed your doctor has told you that it's likely "highly aggressive" and that you likely have less than 1 year to live, but not actually confirmed anything? What tests have you had so far? I see from your other comment you're waiting for endoscopies so I assume all they've seen is a mass on CT?
You can purchase a very cheap $25k-$50k term insurance policy with no medical underwriting.  This would cover the cost of the funeral, and may even leave some left over to start a small college fund for the kids.  
two kids, but you talk of a legal guardian.. yet you get child support.  Is the dad not any good beyond his payments?  Why wouldn't he assume care of the children rather than relying on life insurance?
Try Aviva. My father in law had skin cancer that he never got treated and it ended up spreading. Not long before he passed, a few months maybe, he took out some policies with Aviva for my wife and her sister. It's worth a call. 
I know you've gotten plenty of this already. But I just wanted to say that I am truly sorry to hear about your situation. I hope that you pass with happiness in your heart, and minimal pain in your body. And most of all, I hope that your children can find a path to happiness without you. A piece of you will be living on through them, and that's something magical.
I would do your best to get a different doctor immediately. Something like this should NEVER take 5 weeks. Travel if you have to but every moment is precious in situations like this. I hope you get different answers than what you think it is :) I don't know what kind of doctor would tell you to get your affairs in order without having a colonoscopy/ endoscopy or a biopsy. I hope you get better news than you think. 
I really don't know what to say. I wish I could somehow give you a hug - I'm sure you could use one. 
Please write down everything you love about your children. If I had a letter from either of my parents or my grandma, in their handwriting, I'd sell my soul before I let anything happen to it. 
I'm sorry you're dealing with all of this. 
Just a FYI, my mother in law died recently, always planned on donating her body to science, had it drawn up in her will as well. When we called to set up the pick they declined to take her because they stated they didn't want the body becauae it was too heavily damaged. She had diabetes and died of complications from getting pneumonia. It wasn't anything really serious that would have been wrong with her body. We ended up having to have her cremated unexpectedly. It was a shock, so I just want you to be prepared for that as well since we weren't. We had no clue they would just say no
Kinda hosed with the life insurance thing, its one of those hindsight 20/20 things.
That said, if your ex is paying $1600 a month in child support it means he has a pretty well off job, and if he's making monthly payments it shows he cares.  It might be time to make amends, given that you've got only a few months left.  Up to you, but I would strongly consider leaving this life on a good note with your kids biological father, because more than likely the courts will hand custody over to him once you pass.
Many credit unions partner with insurance companies to provide small amounts of coverage ($1,000 - $10,000) for members in the hope that customers will purchase additional coverage. In your condition, you wouldn't be approved for additional coverage, but could rack up these small policies with several firms without spending any cash or needing a medical approval.
Generally, any serious life insurance requires you either have an exam or that you disclose any known medical conditions.
Failing to disclose a known condition is grounds to cancel the policy.
It's the same reason why you can't get flood insurance a month before hurricane season starts.  
DO ask unusual sources whether you have policies you may not even be aware of. As another user suggested, you may have small "freebie" policies associated with bank or credit union accounts, credit cards, auto clubs, wholesale clubs, etc. Many of these have built in term life policies but you've probably thrown away the info with the rest of your junk mail. If so, they may not be worth more than a thousand dollars here or there but every little bit helps. 
All the best to you and your family during this difficult time. 
This isn't really financial advice, but kind of just reaffirming what im thinking and some others on here. I havent read everybodys post so perhaps something similar has been said, and if so i apologize. 
But anyway, i saw somebody mention recording videos and taking pictures with you SO and kids, and i think that is a tremendous idea. I find the smallest little trinkets and what not that my grandpa gave me to be awesome. Not a whole lot of picture or videos or anything of us. He was a very lowkey guy. But when i do come across a trinket or something he gave me, it makes me happy and all that jazz. I am sure your family would feel the same way about a bunch of pics and vids. I sure wish i had more with him and other family members. Just a thought to ponder.
Sorry to hear about this.  I have a lot of stomach problems (ulcers, reflux, etc) and the thought of cancer is always in the back of my mind.  I get scoped every couple of years so hopefully it would be caught early if I had it (I hope).
I normally don't buy into woowoo type stuff but I read up about a doctor that recommends baking soda and water a handful of times a day to fight digestive cancer, so I've been doing that just so I feel like I have some level of control.  I'm sure it's just BS, but a lot of people on the ol internet claim it's helped them and put them in remission so I just do it anyway.
Sorry this is a pointless post and I'm just venting, but I really hope for a personal miracle for you and my thoughts are with you. 
i lost my mom last year my sister found out she was pregnant a few months ago she's been in a lot of pain due to not having her or any words or memories to help her along the way leave a note or video for something for when they have their own kids. our mom knew for a long time she was gonna die but never told us due to not waiting to cause pain. we both wish she would of left more notes and video to help along the way.. sorry on topic i would try applying Social Security Disability  one of my friends was able to get the money up until she was 18
I lost my mother to pancreatic cancer. One thing I wished she finished was a personalized video to each of us girls. She wrote in a journal everything she could think of. What we were like as babies. What lullaby she'd sing to us the most. Just little mundane things we did as kids or things we did with her. And it means the world to me now. Also, teach them how to do stuff. Tell them stuff about their future, what kind a husband to look for. What kind of advice you should give them on their wedding day. When they have kids of their own. 
And please don't give up hope yet. I know it's easy to give in to it.  But put any hope or faith you have into healing and positive thoughts. There is great medicines out there. I'm going to add you & your children to my prayers and send positive vibes your way. 
Please make sure your children or whoever will take over your finances has the power to do so. My brother died suddenly at 25 and it was a long process to even be able to pay his truck payment since we didn't have the authority to do so. Also I listen to his voicemails all the time to hear his voice. Leave something for your children, friends, and family to at least hear you in the future when they think of you. 
There are some companies that offer guaranteed issue policies that are very expensive and many have a 2 year waiting period before the full benefit is paid - it sounds like that won't be much help. 
Unfortunately the option for SSD is probably your best bet. I'm sorry for your situation. I hope your prognosis isn't so grim as you believe it to be now. 
Hey, I am very sorry. Just want to offer some of my insight. Cancer has a funny habit of "mind over matter". I have seen this over and over again. One of our family friend was diagnosed with lung cancer. Doctor gave the "you have ~6mo to live". However, she was determined to see her son go to college. And she did. In fact, she out lived it by 4 years. So be strong for your children. I truly believe if your mind is fighting, your body will fight too. 
As hard as it is please try to stay positive!  Healthcare has came a long way.  My mom was diagnosed with advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer in October, and today she is cancer free!  (at the cost of one of her lungs and a a rough couple months of Chemo and radiation).  She is still recovering, but I am so blessed.  I know how hard it is to keep positive with such a bleak diagnosis, some of the hardest nights were due to the not knowing at the beginning..     
Wow, very sad. Too late for insurance, of course. Hard to sign up for life insurance when you're young so don't beat yourself up over this. One question because you've been so open and shared; why a new guardian when you're receiving child support? What I'm really asking is this; since he's providing financial support already he's apparently not a deadbeat so why isn't the father going to take further responsibility for his children and take them in? After all, $1600/month isn't chicken feed (and if that's your only source of income this means he's been supporting more than his two children because you're included, but I digress). Anyway, I'm very very sorry for your plight. Makes me think of my own mortality (once again), which because I approach 60 means this has been happening with some regularity. Anyway, while death comes to us all, this just seems too darned bad because you're so young. I'm truly sorry for what you're going through and if it's any consolation, the children will have few memories and will recover quickly. Going forward depends on the support mechanism, of course. And since you've not mentioned your parents, who is it you believe will become the new guardian and does responsibility for their support transfer to them with your passing, or will the father contest any of this?
One last thought. This regards death. If death is bad, then it's wise to be afraid. But does anyone really know if death is a bad thing? Thus, my best advice is try not to be afraid. Especially because it's either going to be like going to sleep, or if the religious have it right, it means you'll rejoin your deceased loved ones in a happy place. In either instance death's going to be a good thing instead of something to be feared. Be strong and may God bless you.
I really don't have much to offer than my sympathies and condolences. I wish the best for you and your children.
I used to be a life insurance agent and due to your terminal illness a policy that is worth alot will most likely get turned down by underwriting. However, I do know that Colonial Penn has whole life insurance policies that have no restrictions and anyone can purchase them. It may not be much compared to flashy term life policies but in your situation this is your best bet. I hope everything goes well.
God this thread fucked me up, I'm so sorry. FUCK cancer. I found my mom dead when I was 6 and told my dad in the next room that "mommy is laying on the ground with her eyes open". I didn't really know what death was until then... I was in counselling after but it never really hit me how permanent it was. Gave me mortality issues that resurfaced now and then. So definitely talk to them so it's not sudden and they know what's going on because I was so confused. Anyways I can't help financially but I'll say this, leave as many pictures videos and things for them to remember you by. I have nothing except pictures in my grandparents photo album and we all wish we had more videos. I hope you can receive treatment and spend as much time with them as possible
First of all I'm very sorry to hear this, I'm 17 and I lost my mom this year very suddenly, so if I had any advice for you, it would be spend as much time with your children as you possibly can, the impact it can make on them can greatly help. I can't tell you how much I wish I just had one day to say goodbye to my mom before it happened. Just one day is enough and would mean the world to me so don't take your time for granted! I'm sorry I can't give you much advice on finance tho, I'm struggling with that too. 
It's not like Obamacare health insurance, they have full right to deny for preexisting conditions.  
Sounds like everyone here has good advice, but I know of some companies who offer policies that are called "guarantee issue" (meaning they won't decline you). For example, Gerber has a guarantee issue life insurance policy. Rate is based on age and gender, nothing else. Source: I am a life insurance agent. 
I don't have advice but I have cancer and a kid and i just wanted to say I love you and your kids. I wish there was more I could do or say.
My mom passed away from lung cancer when I was six. I don't remember what my parents told me before hand or if I even truly understood what was going on until it was all over. 
I think applying for social security is the best bet, your children should be able to receive survivor benefits until they're 18. Other than finances, it would be really cool if you could make videos for your children to watch on their birthday, graduation, wedding, etc.. That was something I wish I had from my mom and think it's something your kids would cherish. 
IF its not classified as terminal then i would check out a 20 year term life at 1 million.  I wish the best for you though. I seen a kid at 18 die of stomach cancer and it was quite sad since I worked in healthcare at the time. I hope it goes into remission and live a long life.
Research Viatical settlements. Its a form of life insurance where you are paid a portion of the death benefit while living and the ins company recooperates the remaining when you pass. Not common but worth reviewing. Best of luck to you and your family. 
I will be thinking of you everyday. I cannot imagine the magnitude of weight on your shoulders and heart. I have a 3 year old son and one on the way. I sometimes imagine the what ifs and it's unbearable. Because of that I plan on getting a complete physical and whatever test needed to feel some security about my health and future. It wasn't till I had my son that I really worried or cared at times. Now I do and the thought of leaving my children is beyond what I can manage. I know writing this isn't in anyway informative for you and I'm sorry, I just wanted to reach out to you and send you my love. I hope you get the necessary info you need right now and I hope beyond hope that you will make it through this. 
I'm very sorry for your situation!  Unfortunately I can't envision any insurance company issuing you a life insurance policy because there's essentially a 100% chance that they would end up having to pay it out.  Insurance is all about risk transference.  They will insure against things that *might* happen but not against things that probably will happen 
I can't really help with the financial questions but I'm just here to say if you ever need someone to talk to my PMs are always open
I'm so sorry to hear about your illness. I will have your family in my thoughts. I just lost my dad to cancer almost 2 months ago. I'm 28 but have 2 half siblings that are 7 and 11. Kids are resilient and they seem to handle it better than me. I agree with what others posted about making videos and such. Make a video for special occasions as well as just because I.e. to say you love them, are proud of them, etc. I think making  videos for milestones would be better than letters. Id give anything to have a video that I could watch that has my dad sitting there just talking to me, being able to see him and actually hearing him say he loves me. Once again Im pulling for you! 
You're still so young... My mom is 50 and still hasn't applied for life insurance, so I don't blame you whatsoever. 
I don't have any helpful advice, but my heart aches for you and I wish you all of the best. Despite the shitty odds, try to keep positive! It's not over until it's over. But regardless of the verdict, your babies love you and will be with you until the end. Take lots of pictures of you with your family if you can. I'm sure they'll appreciate it when they're older. 
Any decent life insurance requires a health check.  I would open bank accounts and sign up for their cheap death policies that they try to get you for $20/month.  Many credit cards have these as well. Try a gofundme account.  Rack up CC debt now, they get written off upon death.  I'd rather see you get it than a hacker. I'm so sorry. 
A husband of a family friend of mine was told he had stage 4 terminal stomach cancer. They did further testing and realized it was only stage 3 and he could proceed with having his stomach removed to save his life. Either way, you have a tough battle in front of you, but I wish you nothing but the best. Chin up. 
Insurance producer here, I can regrettably assure you that more than likely no insurance company would be willing to take you, however the gentleman referencing social security has hit the nail right on the head. My heart goes out to you, just found out one of my best friends dad has stage 4 stomach cancer, glad he got his insurance earlier in life, because situations like this can almost never be predicted
There are life policies even for the very ill but they don't pay a death benefit if yoiu pass during the first 24 months. The first years premiums are refunded to your family if you pass within 12 months of the effective date. They get half the paid premium back if you pass during the second 12 months of coverage. No death benefit is paid unless you pass more than two years from the effective date. And it's expensive compared to even the highest tables of "regular" term coverage but you knew that was coming. 
I'd suggest editing your post to include more information such as:
- Your work experience and degree
Sorry for your loss.
I'm so sorry for your loss. I know how you feel I lost my wife unexpectedly 3 years ago. I have two young boys I'm now raising alone. IT IS SOOOO HARD. But it will get easier, if your husband was a US citizen your child is eligible for social security benefits. Not much but it will help. Time doesn't heal all wounds (that's crap) however it does make things more bearable. Good luck to you both.  
I’m really sorry for your loss. If you have a religious affiliation, speak to the leader of your local group. They often have resources to help in some ways. Also, go to your local government assistance office to file. Even if you are denied, it doesn’t hurt to ask. Good luck. 
In some states in the US, they offer help thru the local unemployment office for people looking for work. They have info on employers who need workers enough to pay for a training program. One example is healthcare. Our area is desperate for hospital orderlies, elder caregivers, and medical assistants that they pay for basic classes at the local tech college. These pay better than retail and act as a stepping stone to better healthcare jobs. There are so many healthcare jobs, there's bound to be something you enjoy. 
I'm so sorry for your loss. I'm sure there isn't much I could say to ease your pain.
I'm sorry for your loss. If your daughter is his biological or legally adopted daughter you may want to check into SS death benefits for her.  I've seen where children are eligible until the age of 18. This may help supplement for her care. Best of luck to you and your family. 
Very sorry for your loss-- your situation is very similar to what happened to my father. If your husband died as result of an accident on the job, you may be entitled to Workman's Compensation  Survivor benefits. If your husband worked enough, your child is entitled to Social Security benefits as well.  Good luck!
Awesome! I bet you could easily find some job in the new year. Your daughter is old enough that you don't have to worry about daycare.
How is your English? Look into government or school based jobs. You may be able to get decent health insurance and a retirement plan too. Even if you have to start as a janitor, you may be able to work your way up.
Make it your  job daily to look for a job. Indeed.com is great and there are tons of free Resume building sites. You can also go to a employment commission or labor ready place for instant job same day show up earrrly for gigs, usually heavy labor though but hey... also til you get on your feet, file for emergency foodstamps or any other assistance til you recover financially with work. There are also employment training centers to help you build a resume. If a homeowner let mortgage company know right away and often they will drastically reduce your monthly payment for a time or even spare you a month. So sorry you have this stress on top of your loss. Also do take time to breathe each day and have a moment to grieve so that you dont have a suppressed breakdown. Hope you guys are ok. Wish i was rich to help but advice is all i have. Take care.
First of all, I'm very sorry about your loss. I did want to share a story that may give you a little bit of relief and hope. My mother in law was in a very similar situation when she lost her husband suddenly and was left to take care of her 14 and 12 year old sons. No savings nor life insurance as he husband "gambled" on a business venture shortly before his suddened passing. My MIL was a stay at home till then and had little family support nearby as she was also an immigrant. My husband and brother in law worked as soon as they could, both graduated from college and are now living the upper middle class life. I admire my mother in law raising 2 boys well against all odds and having them do well, mentally and financially. Take advantage of any and all help offered to you and take care of your daughter and yourself.
Other people are providing good ideas of places to call for support, assistance, or information, so I'm going to give two very specific pieces of advice. 
One is to research the job and company you are applying to and tailor everything to that job/company.   Resume, application, interview, all of it specific to that job.  For example, working in any kind of service/retail job could draw from your prior service experience.   But you could also apply to a different field and reference the leadership and management aspects of your prior experience.   Finding ways to emphasize the relevance of your skills/experience in a way that is meaningful to a potential employer can open the door to an interview, where it falls upon your confidence, personality and capability to perform during the interview to close the deal and get the job.
Two:  Some jobs will have lots of extra benefits, some of which could be HIGHLY beneficial for you.   Using Lowe's as an example, one of Lowe's benefits for full-time employees is a pre-paid legal plan through Hyatt.  The Hyatt legal plan costs ~$15 a month but gives you access to nearly any attorney you can imagine for free.    Parking tickets, debt collection, tax issues, estate planning, wills, etc - all free.  It's worth asking HR at a company you are considering and finding out about all benefits the job conveys - not just the health insurance.
Very sorry for your loss. When my wife re- entered the workforce after many years of working in the home she began as a temporary employee in our local university. She was then able to apply for the same job as a permanent employee and point to her experience in the very position she had worked. Hopefully that may be helpful to you. Best wishes to you and your daughter. 
I offer nothing but my sympathy....I am terribly sorry for your loss
I lost my dad in Oct but by the grace of god and  him caring about us he made sure to have life insurance. To anyone in this thread thinking about having a family... please for the love of god get life insurance. There is literally no way of knowing when your time will come. My biggest regret is not getting up that morning to see my dad off when I could have
Figure out what your most immediate bills are starting with rent and mortgage.  Call those people now to tell them what happened. If you can pay those bills, do so. If you can't, let them know and they'll most likely give you some leniency.  However you'll have to figure out a way to pay these within a few months.
Just wanted to say very sorry for your loss. Especially around this time of the year, I can't really offer any advice but just wanted to offer my condolences.
I am so sorry for your loss, I pray that everything turns out alright. 
Apply at temporary agencies, all of them. It's a good way to get back into the workforce after a long absence. And a lot of times it turns into a two month long job interview. 
I'm very sorry for your loss.
Sorry to hear about your loss. Lot of people have given lot of helpful short term advice which is great.
Stay strong and things will get better with time. It's good that you have a daughter with you to go through this.
I am very sorry for your loss and so sorry for the heart break you're going through.
You and your daughter should qualify for death benefits from his unclaimed Social Security benefits. Go to https://www.ssa.gov/ to apply. If you get stuck, you can look up your local office and go in person for help. (expect a long wait)
Very sorry for you loss. I know you will get through this!
Contact the financial services company holding your mortgage explain the situation ask for solution or at the very least additional time for the next payment.
Find out what work is left on any of his on going projects, see if you can contract the out.
What degree, is there demand for it close to where you live? Do you have the paperwork. As long as it is not medical most qualifications are accepted in the USA. Call an employment agency
As you have worked for a restaurant before see if you can get a waitress job to get a feel for the way it works states side. 
You sound intelligent enough to work at any minimum wage job. Your daughter is sixteen so she doesn't really need you to look after her every second. Take your time to mourn, take care whatever you need to take care of after a death in the family and then slowly get back on your feet. You're still young and have so much life to live. Sorry for your lost and wise you and your daughter nothing but the best. 
I'm so sorry for your loss. If you need help writing a C.V/resume or cover letter, or need to develop a skill like microsoft office or a even a language, I encourage you to check out your local library. They have lots of job hunting resources and classes available for free, and librarians are always happy to help. 
Behind all of this remember that your daughter is seeing you as an example now. True character is seen in bad times not the good times. Part of this is an opportunity to show her (and yourself) what you’re made of and how strong you can be to pull through. You will have a roof and you won’t starve, but how you navigate through this (as you are clearly doing by asking questions) can be an example and bond between you and your child that can have more life value than financial wealth. You are the example for her should she ever fall in hard times in her future. Use that fact as your principal motivator. And a good cry in each other’s arms once in a while helps a lot. Ask for a chance to prove yourself to get a job. Become so good you are indispensable. Then get your pay up little by little. 
I'm sorry for your loss. My stepdaughters lost their dad right before Thanksgiving. It makes the holidays harder, but it makes your family closer. Hug your girl. It's ok to cry with her, she understands. Best of luck to both of you. 
My sister got a nursing degree from a no name, for profit, shady technical college in rural Ohio--and still manages to make $70,000 per year ( in a low cost of living area ). She is plagued with worries about job instability, but has managed to go from abject poverty to trying to put herself through a four year, state university next--all as a single mom.
Focus on gaining and keeping employment at large companies: they offer insurance, benefits, and much better stability than small and midsized companies, leagues better than contract work or entrepreneurship. 
You can do it. 
I don’t have any financial advice for you, but know that you have my full support and that I am wishing you and your daughter the best ❤️ I lost my mom just 5 months ago, I can relate to what you’re going through 
Contact a workers' comp. lawyer. Even if he was a "contractor," he may have been actually an employee, and thus his death would be covered. 
I'm so sorry for your loss. Although I can't help you like all these people are cuz I've never been to the US but I wish you all the best for your future. Straighten up and don't let this break you. I really hope that you come back one day with a post about how you steered through this phase of your life and be an inspiration for all of us.  Again, I'm so sorry, it's a really tough situation to be in, you guys take good care of yourselves.
On a side note, it makes me really happy seeing reddit being one big family! Y'all are awesome *sheds manly tears
When my wife died in 2013, just 25 days after giving birth to our daughter, I've found good help in some online forums like Soaring Spirits and Widda. Friends and relatives helped me with the baby but talking to other widow(er)s helped me with the grief.
It's what I'm doing now, so if you have any questions, just let me know.
 This should send a message to any fathers out there, of your going to contract ensure that you can afford to take care of your family in case of events likes this, I'm 27 and had life insurance for 3 years now even though it's just me, my fiancé and our pets. It's worth a half a Million which isn't much but it can take care of here incase of any mishaps to me. 
I’m so sorry for your loss. I agree, the dept of health and human services should be able to help refer you to some resources. Being bilingual, look into companies like Cyracom who offer translation services for work. I would think you’d be eligible for survivors benefits from Social Security. Regarding the death certificate, make sure you request at least 5 or 6 copies. You will need a copy for the bank, your mortgage company, etc. and it’s much easier when you already have extras on hand. I know you must be really afraid but if you reach out there are people who can help. 
Sorry for your lost.
Start enrolling for any state and local aid you qualify for. Medicaid, food stamps, rent and utility assistance, job training, etc. If you don't know where to start call a local church, they are usually very good at having lists, numbers, and eligibility requirements for all the aid programs in your area
Regarding your home lease/mortgage, you might want to look into legal aid services for low/no income individuals in your state, they might be able to advise you of your options regarding your home.
My heart is with you. Definitely reach out to the county and your family and neighbors. Idk what neighborhood you live in but I hope it's one where people know when to coem together. Even if its for food or something. It's not begging or anything, I'm a strong believer in the community. There are those like me everywhere. You don't have ask for anything but I would definitely let your closest family and neighbors know to keep an eye on you and your daughter. It's still new, and the shock probably hasn't really hit yet. My depression after father's suicide peaked 5 years after his death. Please stay safe and do not hesitate to get assistance. Help is out there, and people want to help. Also, consider setting up a GoFundMe for crowdsourcing. It'll allow people to donate a little to help out. 
I’m very sorry for your loss. If you live in a city had Rover.com or Wag you can do dog walking or dog boarding to warm some side money beside your full time job. Your daughter can do it too, it’s supper easy to have people drop off their pups at your place and you walk them and feed them. you can also reach out to UBer they have a program that you can rent out a car (if you don’t have one) and start driving people for money and you pay the company for car rental. I hope you will get through this time. My deepest sympathy is with you and your family. Please stay strong, if tragical  situation did not kill you, it will strengthen your skills and feeling alive is the best thing a human could experience. I’m very sorry! 
First of all, I'm very sorry for your loss. I've got one question for you: which state are you in? The reason I ask is because you (or at least your daughter, assuming she's a citizen), could be able to receive full Medicaid benefits. If you are in one of the right states, it's full coverage absolutely free for citizens and at very low cost for non citizens. 
That's the reason why I ask my wife to learn English, find a job and gain an ability that can support her without me. (She says I don't accept her as what she is). 
There has been a lot of advice.  Your daughter is entitled to your deceased husbands social security benefits until she is 19 or 20 I believe. You need to contact social security administration as soon as possible and obtain the death certificate. 
Sorry for your loss. 
Don't forget to apply for Social security.  As a minor your daughter should qualify for a monthly payment up to about 23 as long as she is in school.  Check specifics on line at SSA.
I'm so sorry for your loss. I don't have the best financial advice, but I went through something similar in high school. 
I found that making sure I was low maintenance to my family helped a lot in the long run. I was able to manage my time and my transportation (this was before I had a car), by walking to school. It leaves the adults like you with some more time to figure some things out, and it really adds up.
I know this is incredibly tough, but sit down with your daughter and be forward with what you need from her so you can prepare yourselves. 
You'll make it, everyone does! :)
I'm so sorry for your loss, I can't even imagine. 
I'm not sure where exactly you're located, but for starters you could get a job as a waitress (I'm in Los Angeles, and these waitresses and bartenders apparently make around 50k due to high tip volume). Not bad considering you don't really need much to get a job besides a friendly attitude.
Oh, and there are tons of LVN programs where all you need is a high school diploma from your country. Tuition is only 20k for the entire program, not bad seeing that you'll probably make 50k a year for 20-30 years (however long you want to work for); that's $1,500,000 which is a pretty damn good return on investment for anyone.
I know there's a lot more to your situation, but I think this is a decent way to start thinking about your career - nursing is awesome, especially for someone in your situation: stability, demand, decent income, relatively easy entrance requirements.
If he died without a will his estate may need to go through probate. Talk to a lawyer before selling the house,  liquidating assets, etc.
If this was 5 years ago I would have thought you were my own mother.
My condolences to you and your family, my dad passed away this past November.  As the oldest I am still trying to learn everything as each day passes since my mom has never worked and English isn’t her first language.
It is ok to be scared, and just know you’re being very strong whether you know it or not.
I’m sorry for your loss, that feeling is unimaginable .I hope you find your way through this.
Not sure what it is like everywhere OP but at the hospital I worked at in MO, they would hire you and do your CNA training within. They also provide tuition reimbursement for the nursing school associated with it if you’re working full time. Maybe something to look into in your area. I’m so sorry for your loss and good luck! You can do this. 
My husband died when my son was 8. If he paid Social Security then your daughter is eligible for ss survivor benefits. You should also get a death benefit but it’s only $250.  Reach out to folks you know. It takes a village and now you will be welcomed by folks you didn’t know cared.  I understand your anxiety. We’re all here for you.
My sincere condolences on your loss. May you and your daughter be able to grieve fully and heal in time.
I can't offer much in the way of financial advice, except to look very carefully at your funeral options under state law (the funeral home may pressure you into extremely expensive options for their own financial gain, so be wary). Roughly, cremation should cost around $500 US. See the excellent Youtube channel [Ask A Mortician](https://m.youtube.com/#/channel/UCi5iiEyLwSLvlqnMi02u5gQ) for more details about your options.
But, for the next week, or even two, do yourself a favor and order ready-made meals and staple foods that require little cooking to be delivered by your local grocery store. It is one thing that can give you a little bit of breathing room in terms of time and effort. You won't have to leave the house, either, so you can enjoy a smidge more privacy.
These jobs can be done over night generally working night shifts while being home during the day. My mother use to do this, she supported me and 2 other kids by herself. You meet good people and it's an easy job. You can work day time as well if your child can be home alone in confidence. Please don't be afraid to seek out help from your family. If there's anything you can do wrong is eliminate the family or close doors to them when they are there. 
Get a job waiting tables. Start there. You can average 15 or more an hour at some places. I bartend and make about 36k part time. It’s a start. 
I don't have any real advice for you, but I'm sorry for your loss and hope you make it through everything OK.
Are you a citizen or have a Green Card? Then you're going to be OK. You have to start applying to entry level jobs, like at Walmart and McDonald's. You will probably need at least 2 jobs to be able to afford to live.
Is your daughter doing OK in school? Could she also get a job at a fast food place, 15 to 20 hours a week, to help support the household?
If she is struggling in school, then don't expect her to get a job. School is #1. 
Do you live in a state that can offer you both Medicaid? Do you belong to a church? Can you find a church that will offer grief counseling? I suggest this because churches can offer this for free, support groups for grief, or at  a very low cost. The bigger the church is, the more likely it is to have these groups.
You need to start looking for for Food Banks in your community. Just Google "food banks in [name of town or county]". They should pop up. Be sure to call them first because you often have to bring proof of residency, which is your photo ID and a recent utility bill. Sometimes you can get food at these places only once a month, sometimes once a week. They are all different.
Look for your Social Services website for your county and apply for EVERYTHING they offer - SNAP benefits, housing, Medicaid, medical insurance for your child, EVERYTHING. 
Don't state your former earnings, unless your husband is going to get a final paycheck, or his employers are going to offer you a severance package on his behalf. YOUR earnings are $0. Fill out the forms with that.  If they are asking for your income for the last 3 months, of course, state his earnings, but be sure to tell them somewhere on those forms that your husband has died. 
Do you live in a major metropolitan area? A job you can get within 48 to 72 hours, as long as you have a working car that gets decent MPG,  is delivering food for DoorDash, UberEats, GrubHub, Caviar, etc. You have to have a SmartPhone that has a decent amount of RAM (2 GB is best, but 1 GB will limp you through the work). 
It's a pretty safe job for a woman because if you don't want to work past 10 p.m., you don't have to. You also don't have to work in the scary parts of town, and if you ever feel unsafe making a delivery, like it's very dark, you can't find the apartment, and the customer is not answering the phone to tell you exactly how to get to their unit so you don't have to wander in the dark alleys, then you can contact Driver Support and they won't force you to wander looking for the apartment. They will support you as you wait for the customer to answer their phone or text so they can come to the car, or at least meet you in a well-lighted area. 
Plus, you only have food in your car. It's not like picking up strangers and giving them rides late at night. Many women drive for Uber and Lyft, and they pay better than food delivery,  but if that's not for you, its not for you. 
The best advice I can give you is to take good care of yourself and do good things. The good things you do will have unexpected benefits that you can't foresee. So the future might seem really dark right now. But the odds are, something good will happen that you won't see coming and it will add a lot of light to your life.
Every time I end up in a really dark place in my life and feel hopeless... something happens that I never would've expected and things feel better.
Sorry to hear about your loss. 
2) Cleaning services - Cleaning other peoples stuff pays really well if you get the right jobs. The only real upward movement here is if you work for someone else and get better paying / work gigs. 
No choice.. Better get any job to start 
Goto school
First of all, I’m so very sorry for your loss. There has been lots of good advice given here. I agree you should immediately apply for survivors benefits through the Social Security website or local office. Your daughter would very likely be eligible. If your husband was ex military, you could also see if you or your daughter are eligible for any sort of help from the Veterans Administration (VA). A local VFW branch could help you apply if he is a veteran. If he was a vet, there are also Army/Navy survivors benefits you could ask about (called SBP). If he paid into that for you, you could apply now. A resource for help paying rent is your local housing authority. Wait lists are usually years long, but if the waitlist is open for a Section 8 housing voucher, you should apply now. Also ask your local housing authority to see if they have any special programs to help those in transitional housing situations as well. Be sure, if you are facing homelessness, to emphasize that when you speak to them. Ask for a supervisor if you get the brush off. Check with Salvation Army, the YWCA, your local community college advising and financial aid offices (if you’re considering vocational courses). Catholic Community Services and St. Vincent De Paul Society are Catholic organizations that can help in emergencies with rent, utilities, and food vouchers. You don’t have to be Catholic to get help. Google your local office. There’s also Lutheran Social Services. All of them are plugged in to the local resources for assistance. If you’re truly broke, you can apply for a cash grant called TANF, as well as food benefits and there’s the free lunch program at schools. You can be moderate income and still qualify for free lunches for your children. These programs are usually administered through your local social services department at the County level. I hope you’ll find a church, temple, mosque or other faith community too if you haven’t already. A faith community can be such a support in good times and bad. And you might meet another single mom to share expenses with or just have a shoulder to lean on. I hope things turn around for you very soon. May you be blessed! 
You will want to compile all information possibly related to any of his financial holdings. Look through every piece of paper, every bill. Keep a spreadsheet along with status of your inquiries.
Contact his parents, if possible, to see if they have any advice or know of policies or finances your husband might have had. They may also be able to help.
Fyi you will not qualify for a cash out mortgage without stable employment.  The option will be there once you secure full time employment and establish a decent fico.   Think about establishing some credit history asap so if the need arises in the future you are ready.
Honestly restaurants sounds like a great fit.   You have experience and it's decent money. 
If you can't do it alone my biggest piece of advice would be to move in with family that lives in the US. Even if your daughter has to move schools, the most important thing is to have a roof over your head and *then* work on finding employment.
As someone who lost his father this year and wonders weather or not this matters, what about personal debt? If my father had a credit card that had to be paid is it my families responsibility to pay? When they refer to the estate will pay for it is it because they're taking us or my father to court?
Hey there! So sorry for what you're going through, just want to let you know that most hospitals pay well, have great benefits and will also sponsor you if need be. There are positions like patient registration, patient access, human resources associate, patient transport, operating room assistant, sterile processing tech, unit clerk, etc. That are entry level and not crazy stressful. From there you can use your science degree to figure out what you'd fit in better with. Hospitals are great, stable placed to work; no matter what the capacity. Good luck 💜
I'm sorry for your loss. Reaching out to reddit i hope, has enabled you to gain further help. If i can help in any way at ALL, please, send a dm. In the meantime, please, be safe, take care of each other. ❤ 
What languages do you speak?
I don't have any financial advice but I'm so sorry for your loss. That's a horrifying situation and the way you seem to be looking after yourself and your daughter speaks volumes about your character. Peace 
Most Superannuation schemes have an insurance clause for disability or death built in. It's a good idea to take a look at that if there is a Superannuation policy.
Was he working when he passed?
Nothing to add in terms of advice unfortunately but I just wanted to say good luck with everything.
Looks like you got the help you needed. I want to say that you can do this and don't give up.
Quick question: Are you legally allowed to work in the US? It sounds like your husband was American or had a VISA; if it was a work-sponsored one and you do not have a greencard or citizenship you have to contact immigration or your local office. 
I know that that's scary, but they can help get the necessary paperwork that you'll need to get higher-paying jobs and it'll help your daughter too once it's time for college and they need disclosure on your financial situation.
Depending on what state you live in, one thing this country doesn't get enough credit for is how good the social service programs are.  In my state (Ohio) which is surprisingly conservative/republican for how well it treats it's less fortunate residents, if you hit hard times you can get, in addition to food stamps and that sort of thing, cash aid which can amount to several hundred a month in cash deposited in your bank account.
Do you have a spare room? Consider renting it out so you have some income coming in.
I'm not American but on shows like Judge Judy I sometimes see teens who are getting some kind of social security because their parent died. Is that something someone knows about and can give proper info on?
Something I tried to fruitlessly explain to my brother. Pick a field where the jobs will remain for at least 10 years and where working harder than others will yield rewards. Then stick with it. The first 3 years are usually rough, after that life changes.
A professor of mine's first husband died when she was in her 30's. He put a majority portion of the money in a trust to be released to her a year and a half from his death - the minority portion was to cover funeral costs and living expenses in the interim. The reasoning he had was that grief makes even reasonable people do stupid things, and a large sum of money can make that worse. She was very glad he did it, because she had a cousin that wanted to "help her" but turns out that cousin was hoping to take financial advantage of a grieving widow. So that's another thing you need to consider, if people know you guys are typically irresponsible with money.
Will she get Social Security Survivor Benefits as well? ie do you have minor children?
When my dad was dying of brain cancer the insurance company gave him half his policy months before and he handled what he could so my mom would be all set. Hopefully this comment reaches you...And then getting a lawyer and financial advisor for her.
If you have a life insurance and want to control how the money is distributed over time, you need to set up a trust and set the trust as beneficiary of the insurance, so that it can work the money as you instructed.
0. Hire a lawyer to do all this. 
1. Set up trust. 
3. Instruct trust to buy 1.2 million annuity. 
5. Put other expensive assets in this trust's name also. 
How did you get a $1.2 M life insurance policy (I assume term) with a pre-existing condition that has killed all of your male ancestors since the 1600s? That is a win in and of itself. Godspeed buddy--keep the wind at your back and sail towards the setting sun! 
I know you probably won't see this but you sound exactly like a friend I had. Same drinking problem, liver was shot and doctor told him he was fucked if he didn't stop drinking.
He didn't. He kept on for another year and was nearly dead. Like in bed to die nearly dead.
Day by day he started to feel better. Started walking around and wasn't drinking. A church group had been visiting him when he was sick so then he started going to church.
Alcohol was replaced by water and juicing. He started doing yoga.
Doctors were unsure what the fuck was going on. But he came back from it.
Now I don't tell you this shit so you quit drinking and start a juicing diet while praying to the invisible Man upstairs. I'm telling you this because it might not be too late. You're still young and the body can do incredible things.
My mother got lazy after she started to receive some money per month, a couple of years after my father passed away. In other words, this money may kill her attitude toward improve in life. She is only 33, she should get psychological help and put back her life together: search a serious job, process your departure and (sorry to say this) get another partner.
the risk is that she get the money, and due to depression she will not search for a work, and stay miserable for 15-20 years... Then the money is over, she is not able to work anymore and she lose everything.
Depending on your state's laws, there may be ways to shield the insurance policy from taxes. (In my jurisdiction, for example, if a person designates a named beneficiary on their policy, the policy will 'fall outside the estate' and pass to the beneficiary tax-free).
Do you have a will prepared? Usually there is boilerplate language instructing your executor to pay off your debts. I would take that into account when considering your insurance payout.  Your debts won't die with you - your estate will be on the hook to creditors.
Your username and situation makes me feel horrible ;( best of luck to you and your wife! Hope you find what your looking for
I suggest going to a financial advisor asap and have her learn how to budget. She is going to have to learn how to manage and respect money. 
Something to consider is that you might have a few months left but your mind might not. Most everyone I have known with a terminal illness became mentally compromised to different degrees in the months leading up to their deaths. Take action while you are mentally able. Whatever is killing you will degrade your thought process.
When I couldn't track my spending and was in debt, my family gave me a loan to pay down my debt on the condition I go to weekly Debtors Anonymous meetings.  It helped me a lot.  It might help your wife, to have people who are equally bad with money, working to stick to a budget and keep in a mindset of not spending to cope with other things.  People talk about things going on in their lives and listen to others stories, and often some people are going through the grieving process.  
I'm glad to see all the points here about getting good legal advice - which you should.  One thing to consider is that when someone has access to a guaranteed stream of money, such as a lottery annuity, they can often sell the rights to that stream of money to someone else at a discount and get a lump sum of cash.  It sounds like you don't want to let your wife get into that situation here, or for her family to be able to pressure her into doing so.  I'm not sure how you structure a trust to give the trustee enough discretion to meet your needs but I'm pretty sure it can be done. And perhaps my more important advice is be thorough when you look for a lawyer.  Don't just hire someone who comes highly recommended.  This stuff is very niche - you want to find a lawyer who has been through nearly this exact situation before.  Interview them, ask for examples, ask to talk to clients.  Demand proof of competency and expertise.  Good luck.
All in all, the lawyer fees, notary costs, etc. ended up around $1000 or so for my situation.  Yes, that is a bit of change, but we are 100% sure that when my mom eventually dies, my sister and I won't have to deal with the same legal/financial nightmares we are working through with my mom.
The bad news is, you can only build in so many safeguards for your wife and the money.  At some point, she is going to need to take responsibility to not continue bad spending habits and not fall victim to scheming from family and friends.
You have my sympathy for your situation, I hope all turns out the best that things possibly can.
Since you said you two have reckless spending habits, it might be smart to limit how much access to capital she has if you truly want her to be financially secure. Kind of like how trust fund babies live, since she will lose your 6 figure income, and likely still have the same spending habits.
I would do what you said actually. Put money into a dividend paying ETF, instead of a mutual fund (Generally poor performance and various fees, I worked for one previously). The annuity is also a good idea since larger payouts. You might have to set up a trust with a lawyer however, which costs money obviously, but I think would be worth it considering her spending habits.
With your debts, I think after you pass away, your debts can be heavily refinanced, as long as they dont know how much money she made, so I think the trust is a good idea, just include some covenants. Actually, if you divorce her, I think she doesn't have to deal with them when you die. Not sure if she is responsible for it if you're still married and you pass away.
As a 40 something in the same boat as you, this made me laugh harder than I have in awhile. My wife is the only one who understands my complete acceptance of the inevitable and I love her more for it every day. Without her I'd have surely given up when the damn chemo nearly killed me a few months ago and my only concern is for her when I pass since we too are complete imbeciles with money. Keep your chin up, love your lady for as long as you have left, and face down your final time without fear my friend! 
First I saw the debt thing, then I saw this
> [I've worked full time since I was 14 and have made about $1.3 million in that time](https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinance/comments/5mtova/im_dying_in_a_few_months_i_have_a_1200000_life/dc69f42/)
>[I have made riches (at once had 3 million dollars in cash in my closet); but it didn't find me happiness.
You already have a lot of good advice here, so I most likely will be echoing what has already been said.
Once the trust us set up you'll need to reach out to your life insurance company and request a change of beneficiary form, and get it all filled out and turned in. 
Corporate trustees don't really deal with the investments so you'll want a financial advisor to manage those for the trust.  You'll want someone who is a fiduciary.  
As far as investments go, one of the only places to get a guaranteed income is an annuity.  An idea would be to ask your advisor for some quotes on immediate annuities.  If you have an idea how much you want it to pay out on a monthly or annual basis you can tell that to your advisor and they can find out how much you will need to front to get that.  From there you can give instructions within the trust to do this if it's what you want.  The trust can own the policy and she would be the insured.  The payments can be set up to pay to the trust, then the trust pay her.  This could allow you to get a larger annuity that would pay out more than she needs and when it gets to the trust, the trust would then pay out only what she needs, then direct the rest into an investment.  This could be a way to assure some gains on it.  There are lots of other things to invest in. Another thing I suggest to people who are looking for income from their investments is real estate.  I work with real estate investments that are paying out 8-12% depending on which ones you go into.  There is a lot to consider and it's unfortunate that you have gotten screwed by a couple of advisors in the past.  Hopefully, you'll be able to find someone soon enough.
Seriously, get out that bucket list and do it with your wife.  That is what I'd do if I had to go in a few months.  Of course, don't go into hundreds of thousands of more debt but what I am saying is that you dying will give her some support to get on her feet regardless of what you do now, but if you spend your last months with her living life to the fullest that will leave her with more than your insurance policy ever could.
that's it. she should live off her salary from there on. it doesn't need to be as complicated as everyone here is making it out to be. sorry sir for your loss
If she is the beneficiary, the money will paid to her upon her death. What you might do now is determine how to invest the money in a diversified pool of mutual funds that will provide the annuity you wish, or purchase an annutiy. You may want to contact a professional for this.
Props for sorting this out in your current situation, 1.2m is a lot man, thats pretty fucking cool of you, don't think its not. I hope you sort this out and get to cut yourself some slack. 
Do you have a terminal illness rider with your policy? If you do, let them know. You could get a portion up front before you die to take care of some of these bills and help you too.
Also here is a website to explain a trust. Another thing you can do is get a hold of your insurance company and see if you can set it up as a 5 year or 10 year pay out. This way the money does not come out all at once. 
I'm going through this right now with my father inlaws estate, it's a total shit show. You need a GOOD  estate attorney. Find someone with lots of good reviews. From personal experience you will need a will that sets up a trust for your wife and designates all assets to the trust. You will need to change the beneficiary of the insurance policy to the trust, not your wife. You will need to name a Trustee to care for and disburse the assets. If you don't have someone in your life that you trust 100% you can have a professional be the Trustee, again talk to a lawyer. My last bit of advice, Do NOT name your wife as executor of your estate. Have the lawyers take care of ALL of those duties. You absolutely do not want to burden your wife with the avalanche of paperwork and bullshit that happens after you die. This will cost you some money in legal hours, but it's worth every penny.
Have you considered selling your life insurance policy at discount for cash, and then using that cash to buy a liver? I mean, 1.2mil is a lot, and there are lots of people out there with terminal illnesses that don't have that kind of parachute for their loved ones. Perhaps you can help another family in need in exchange for a second lease on life? Grasping at straws here, just an idea. Wish you and yours the very best.
Holy fuck 130k a year and you live paycheck to paycheck?? No luxury eitther?? How do you sped 10k a month without luxury??
You really need to speak to an estate planning lawyer. Don't listen to someone on Reddit. It's a very sad situation, don't get taken advantage of. Find someone local who does this for a living (this is a legal issue, btw, not necessarily a financial planning one)
FWIW, insurance benefits are IN GENERAL paid directly to the beneficiary, and do not go to the estate, so unless you have significant assets to leave via your estate, the $1.2m is not really at issue with your debts. However, GO TO A LAWYER DO NOT TAKE MY WORD FOR IT, because it's highly dependent on the contract of your policy and your state.
Give over ownership of life insurance policy to an Irrevocable Trust (meaning you cannot change it once done ((not easily or cheaply that is)))
- The trust is a separate legal entity
- If you'd like the money to last 40 years the trust should only distribute $40-$50k a year at most.  (Trust could also give her 3-4% cost of living adjustments per year)
Good luck and good for you for having the foresight to get life insurance at all.  Most people don't and if they do, don't get enough.  Your responsible actions will ensure your wife never goes broke.
I know you're trying to appear to be noble in your quest to abstain from a transplant stating that you'd "drink it away", but let's be honest, shall we? One who refuses to "dry out" is typically barred from getting a new liver. They do not just hand you a liver because you need one. There is a period of time in which you must be completely sober before they will even add you to the list. For some hospitals, it is one full year. Clearly, you never fulfilled the criteria to be considered for transplantation. 
I know this because a relative of mine died 2 years ago from cirrhosis. They were never added to the transplant list because they needed to be alcohol-free for one year. My relative died 2 months shy of the 1-year mark.
Livers are not easy to come by. Hospitals want to ensure they are giving them to worthy candidates, which is why they have rules like the waiting period to begin with. 
You may want to look into a life insurance payout option that is similar to an annuity with a long fixed or lifetime payout. That way, your wife will receive the money like a monthly paycheck, which will limit the financial damage she can do to herself. 
Consider using a trust company to manage your assets, so they have a fiduciary responsibility to your family. You also need to speak to an attorney about setting up a trust, to control the assets and the disbursement.  Find an attorney that is an experienced trust and estate lawyer. Not some guy in a suit that does everything 
The attorney and your accountant might even be able to appeal to the creditors and it's to settle on a payment plan or reduced payoff. 
An income annuity is hard to justify because she is so young. The payout amounts are going to be very low.  
Set the money up in a good S&P 500 index fund like Vanguard and she won't have to worry about a retirement. 
Go see an accountant and go see a lawyer. Just make sure you set the executor of the trust as someone independent, like an accountant or a very trustworthy friend. Make sure she is setup for life. She might not like it that way, but at least you know you will always be able to take care of her after you are gone. 
CTRL+F didn't find it so I'm adding it even though it's probably just buried. The kind of trust you're looking to create is called a spendthrift trust.
Pay off any taxes that maybe owed. If you are married and file jointly it will transfer over to her when you pass. It's a big hassle to go through and most tax resolution firms don't take cases as such because they're huge hassles. (I've been in the field for years) also pay off the creditors, no matter what they'll see the money before she does. Most cases the government will pay off their debt first then the creditors and what else is left then goes to the widower. Make sure you are up to date with your tax filings so they do not attempt to garnish or levy as well. 
Are you ill or are you thinking about ending your own life? Please talk to a counselor if the latter. Some life insurance policies will give her a hard time if you commit suicide. Just had to say it. 
They can't equip your wife to use her life insurance to pay off the estate. She picks what she wants to keep and assume those loans as long as they are in your name only. Anything under her name she is required to maintain. Check with your life insurance company about the beneficiary payout as an annuity instead of lump sum. You may be able to set that up prior but she will definitely have that option when it comes to cashing out the policy. Any value left in the estate will be used toward debt and any debt above that will die with you. 
You could just set it up yourself.  You can take out your life insurance with proof of terminal condition.
You could put it in an automatic annuity or a portion of it with a sound company like Fidelity.  Annuities are not garnish able in my state and several others, like IRA's & 401K's.
My mother received a large policy upon my fathers death.  They married young and she never really held a job. The money was handled by family members and she was allowed to make a couple of large purchases. A new home and a car. The rest of the money was put into cd's and other accounts. What was the end result?  My mom was in her 20's when my dad passed and 40 years later she is completely worthless.  My sister took advantage and drained the accounts. In hindsight I feel like my mom would have been better off going into the workforce and getting a job.  She ended up at retirement age with nothing and no ability to get any further. If you have the opportunity to put the money into something that pays over time make it a supplement to her income.  She will be better off. 
I don't have any advice, and I don't know if you believe whether your consciousness survives physical death (I do). In any case, journey well my friend.
Would it be prudent to downsize now while you are able- a townhome/condo perhaps? It might better prepare her financially and reduce future maintenance outlays. Sell the Rover, Get a Camry for her.
think you scared the crap out of a few of us. Although you are good at math, I pray your calculations are off on this trajectory.
If you want to minimize the funeral costs, please consider donating your body. Cadavers help medical students tremendously, and your family can even get the remains after your body is replaced in the lab. 
I don't know jack about finances, but I do know a bit of medicine.
You are young. Liver can have some pretty remarkable regenerative capacity. If it's alcohol, dude, that's at least partly within your control. Stop drinking. Like, now. You want to protect your wife? Living longer is protecting your wife and preventing her from becoming destitute. 
If you can't quit, then you need to know that before you die, you will very likely go into hepatic encephalopathy. Meaning that your liver won't be able to process all the ammonia your body makes and you will no longer be you. Besides taking care of her, you should speak with your doctor, and figure out your advanced directive. It's not unheard of to rack up a pretty bill from keeping you alive on life support. 
The greatest gift that you can give your wife is NOT a lump sum that she'll get if you die, or some kind of structured payout.  Rather a greater gift is to teach her to live within her means.  To start that, you both need to learn to live within YOUR means.  Once you can both learn to do that, then learn to live within even less means and save for the future.  
Put 100% of your savings into mutual or index funds (so you have full control over your money, annuities = surrendering control) that pay dividends, and simply learn how to delay gratification.  You CAN buy mutual funds AND not touch them, if simply you have discipline.  If you can control YOURSELVES, then you should control your finances.  If you can't learn to control yourselves, no amount of preparation for the future is ever going to save your wife from financial suicide.  If you did what you're suggesting and go the annuity route, she'd simply either take our debt that she can only repay with the annuity and live beyond the means you provide for her, or worse yet go to one of those vulture companies like Wentworth where she'd sign over her annunity for an immediate cash payout.  And people do it every day or else there wouldn't be an industry for stupid ass shit like that and reverse mortgages.
It's never too late to learn how to delay gratification and fight lifestyle creep!  
You have to specifically state in the will something along the lines of "I do not wish to leave anything to any other family member".
As many have said, if you establish a trust, and make the trust the beneficiary, that should solve most of the problems. You need to find a trustee though to who will make decisions, both in investments, and distributions. You can make your wife the co-trustee. 
It should not subject anything to additional taxes. The death benefit is  income tax free either way. As far as estate tax goes, the lifetime exemption is $5.4 million so your well below that, plus, the trust can be set up so it qualifies for the marital deduction anyway. 
You need an attorney do to this, and try to find one that specializes in estate planning. Depending on where you are, it should cost between $2,000-$5,000. Don't let the DIY cheap people tell you to use Legalzoom or the like.
Edit: I forgot to write that you can determine the standards that the trustee uses to make distributions to your wife. Generally, she can get all of the income (interest and dividends), plus discretionary principal for her health, education, support, and maintenance. The absolute key is finding a trustee. 
I would recommend a professional trust company if you can. A professional trust company will charge between 0.5% and 1.5% of the value of the trust annually. However, this is actually too small for many trust companies. 
Also 'i have x week's to live' predictions have two sides. You may have less or more. Much less may be unlikely but much more is not impossible. 
(Obviously your situation is distressing and I wish it were not happening)
OP, I would consider what is known as a 'spendthrift' trust. A spendthrift trust is a type of property control trust that limits the beneficiary’s access to trust principal. It is a way to set aside an amount of money for a beneficiary while also protecting it against creditors or scam artists looking to take her money.
It's an irrevocable trust that prevents creditors from attaching the interest of the beneficiary in the trust before that interest (cash or property) is actually distributed to him or her. Such a provision protects the trust and the beneficiary in the event a beneficiary is sued and a judgment creditor attempts to attach the beneficiary's interest in the trust.
Financial planner here. Get referral to an estate planning attorney to get all of your docs done if you haven't. You will need a trust. Beauty of this is that you get to set the rules. I manage some trust funds for clients where stipulation is that it be invests at least 80% in bonds, distributions of only dividends, etc. Tell your attorney your concerns and ask for advice on how the trust can be set up. Are you comfortable with investments or know anyone who is? Because you know the dollar amount you could probably put together a pretty comprehensive plan at this point. You could also pay for a basic plan to include asset allocation and even have the account set up. That way when you pass there is a trust owned account already established with a written plan for how to invest. Puts your wife in charge of investing it though, so you might want to ask your attorney or people you respect about who they recommend for advisors. Be careful. Advisors can be sharks. Try to find someone who offers hourly rate or flat fee planning. I have found that tends to separate those of us who advise from product pushers. Even if you end up using full investment management someone who has an hourly option will probably be more consultative. Best of luck.
Just a word of advice OP but PLEASE do a will. My father passed away unexpectedly at 51 in October. Obviously there was no will and I've learned that no will causes so much headaches. 
Meet with an estate planning lawyer ASAP.  If your wife is the beneficiary she will have unencumbered access to the money and would be able to spend as she pleases or let her relatives and friends scam her.  If you give her advice on how to spend or invest it then she may or may not follow that advice.  I am not a lawyer but I think you can **set up a TRUST as your beneficiary**.  An estate lawyer will know for sure (this is basic estate planning stuff). If so then you can set up the trust so the trust will pay your final expenses or allocate a small portion  to a second trust which will pay your final expenses..  The lawyer will also know if you can avoid the taxes and debt or not.  The lawyer will also help you figure out a payout schedule to your wife that works for what you feel is best.
You will need to appoint someone to be the trustee who will invest the money according to investment policy/instructions you can put into the trust, administer payouts to your wife and take care of trust business like filing a tax return.  Discuss this with the lawyer.  You can either choose someone you know (like a close relative or friend) to do this or a corporate trustee like the trust department of a bank or brokerage firm.  I have no idea what the fees would be for this type of service but the lawyer should be able to offer advice and you can make some calls.  The fees might be unavoidable unless you know someone you can trust who also has the knowledge and skill and is willing to do this *lifetime* job for free (again, a close relative or friend).
Do not delay as the whole process might take a couple weeks to set up and you'll want to do it ASAP if your condition is expected to deteriorate further in order to avoid questions as to whether you did this while you were still in "sound mind" to avoid questions on the validity of your trust setup.  Get a referral to an estate planning lawyer ASAP and call a couple today.  You'll want to do at least a couple quick "free" consultations, possibly over the phone if in person isn't convenient.  The free consultation is basically like an interview and sales pitch.  You'll explain what you're trying the accomplish and the lawyer will tell you how they'd advise you to do it, what their fees would be, and they'll sell you on themselves or their firm.
I've previously listened to him advise how to manage and protect a life insurance claim so that it will continue growing and providing for the previous income that's been lost. 
I don't know how much this will help you but my  family set up trusts (not for other people but for passing on things financially in family) for everyone. 
I know you said that in the past you two were not financially responsible and her family is scuzzy. We make trusts because some of our family is scuzzy too. 
When I was younger and my grandfather passed he had a Trust set up for me. Until I was 18 my dad was in charge of the money. It once I turned 18 there was a monthly amount I was able to get... so long as I abided by the rules he had set up in the trust. It slowed down my ability to spend if I wasn't cooperating (he wanted me to go to college and by God was I gonna learn to adult doing it in his view). 
I don't know the ins and outs of how it all legally works but maybe you can set up a base amount (for her actual NEEDS and. It just wants) and then if she hits her marks the money can be additionally distributed in whatever way you see fit? It might slow down her spending so she doesn't do anything too crazy once you're gone. I know I missed the mark a few times and though my loving was covered I was unable to go do extra stuff because I didn't have money to blow. It taught me real fast how to meet those marks and my spending might not always be the best still but I learned some valuable lessons. 
I've also got a very good legal friend and I cannot upvote enough other people telling you to contact your friend and let her help you get a referral to the right people. If somehow with all the help here you are unable to find someone please feel free to contact me and I'll see if my friend knows anyone I'm your area that can help. 
Really sorry to see people offering help for a fee. I wish you the best OP. 
Well, speaking frankly, just kill all of them. -the villainous family not your wife.
Make sure it doesn't invalidate the life insurance first. That would be a bummer. What better gift to give her?! Financial independence and familial independence! Still put dat money in a trust do. Sorry to hear about your situation.
Talk to a estate planning lawyer.  You need a trust with perhaps some spend thrift provisions and potentially some asset protection provisions.  
I recently helped a widow after a sudden death of her husband. One thing I can add, though not your question, is make sure she knows all the basics of running the household and information related. I came up with a huge list of items to help prepare a loved one for a pending death. Maybe some of these might give you a few ideas that will help your wife. I'm working on a long form mini-book on the topic, but here's a snippet that may be useful. Happy to dig deeper if that would help you and your wife in anyway. 
     Operating the main Electrical Panel (Ideally with circuits labeled, including main)
     Natural Gas Meter and shut off valve
     Sewer clean out access
     Pool or spa
     Review and purchase appropriate life insurance
     Both spouses designate a power of attorney
     Both spouses designate a medical power of attorney
     Both spouses understand the final wishes of the other
     Wills (You do have a will don’t you? You need one!)
     All Insurance Policies, such as health, car, disability, term life, home owners, etc. Be sure to include account numbers and contact numbers for insurer.
     Monthly Budget of how the household operates financially
     Contact info for CPA’s, lawyers, and other professional advisors.
     List of medications, dosages, names, pharmacy, etc.
     Real Estate, property address, deeds, form of ownership, rough value
     Master password for password manager if used
     Key financial and online accounts
     Key utility online accounts
     Main computer passwords if appropriate
     Setup legacy or inactive account contacts if appropriate
**This is very important: If your wife is the beneficiary of the insurance policy, you will have no control over the money.**  She will get it and her in-laws will likely take advantage of her.  Greiving people make stupid moves.  You need this money to go to the estate and let the will put the residual of the estate into a trust with her as the beneficiary of the trust.  If the insurance proceeds hit the estate, there may be estate tax issues and it will certainly be used to pay your debts to settle the estate.  If your intent was to leave the debts unpaid upon death, the insurance proceeds can't go to the estate, which means your will will have no say over how the money is used.  Get a good attorney and expect your consumer debts to get paid in this.
The trust vehicle is the answer to the financial irresponsibility aspects.  $1.1M would be left over after debts are paid, and this would give her $44K to $55K per year income, in theory.  You can use cfire simulators to see various scenarios, but the general rule is you can take 4% forever and 5% most of the time.
Make sure you consider kids or other dependents in the trust.  If you have aging parents that you need to care for 20 years from now or something similar, think about that.  Also be aware of asset transfer risks, like if she gets remarried and dies any money you leave her may go to her next husband and not your/her family as intended.  A good lawyer should talk you through this and the trust can protect against some of this.
I would also try to ensure the trust is managed efficiently.  You'll want decent investment returns on that amount and an unsophisticated trustee could, although acting in good faith, reduce the $1.1 through poor investments, high-fee advisors, etc.
She might not like having $1.1M that she can't access, but that really is what you need to do to protect her.  You might consider setting a floor to the trust, like $800K, that allows her to access a discretional amount of whatever is in trust provided it doesn't lower the balance below the floor.  This would allow for one-time purchases like a house or if a future child needs to go to college, etc.  You may also need clauses in there allowing the trustees to make exceptions.  For example, if she suddenly has $500K in medical bills for herself, what should the trust do?  I would also consider ensuring the trust is obligated to ensure she has medical insurance coverage during any time she remains uncovered.
Edit:  Found this:
It sound like you won't make it three years (I really hope you do), but there may be advantages in setting up the trust before you pass.  Make sure your lawyer, if not an estate lawyer, consults with an estate lawyer.
Fuck the financial advisors in the PM's. I'm sorry OP. I wish I had some real personal finance advice, but I don't. Hang in there, and stay strong. 
I've noticed families tend to tear themselves apart whenever anything big is left in the will. After my grandparents died: all civility went out the window as a couple of my aunts and cousins pecked at each other like a bunch of vultures.
The only way I see in avoiding this is either if the family is very mature, or if there is an explicit directive set for the items. I'm not in law or finance, so take this with a grain of salt, but have you considered actually trying to allocate the funds to things which will improve your wife's life instead of merely leaving it to her? 
From the sound of it you are smarter with money; I think that experience might benefit her more than the bulk of money itself would. Maybe something like a low risk business she will be listed as an owner on where she doesn't have to have a hand in it, but can collect on it regularly. I realize a few months is short for that example. Truth be told: I hate money, and I probably won't have the best recommendations on specifics. Though what I've learned about people is that betting on self-interest is the safest bet you can make, and in cases like this; it's best to make sure there's no room for the vultures to exercise their self-interest because they'll try to tear away anything that isn't nailed down.
PS: On a slightly different note, for what it's worth, I've died once this life already. I'm convinced it isn't nothing that waits for us. The who, how, and what of it all; I don't know. What I saw was the under-pinning structure that ties us all together. We're like coral in a sense. I think it is our beliefs that color this experience for us, and that there is no one true form of afterlife; that we will gravitate towards that which we intend to find. In my case, this was systems/structures. Godspeed, sir.
Can you hire a lawyer to setup a trust with the insurance payout? The trust could then give her a monthly payout until it runs out. 
I think your wife will need to work still but at the very least will have that minimum monthly income if she loses her job etc.
Good luck man. Whatever is left of it.
I'm probably to late for you to see it, but three things need to happen. Forget the fact that you've been burned by other advisors, they were salesmen, you need to find a fiduciary. Ask people who you know are successful, who they work with. Go to a few first appointments with an estate lawyer and advisor, and see if they have anyone they work with. That was the first two things you need to do (lawyer and advisor), the third is have your wife educate yourself. You can put it in a trust, you can try and tie it up in different ways, but she needs to change her financial attitude and literacy. Because you can limit the money she gets each year, but you can't limit what she spends when you are gone.
I'm from the financial services industry, and didn't PM you for business. Ha!
Hey man.  Not too savvy on the intricacies of financial law in this given situation, but I have seen the aftermath.
A buddy of mine died in Afghanistan while out on patrol.  As service members we have the option of $400k in life insurance + 100k death benefit.. so around half a mil to the survivors of the family.  My friend was married and had a stepson.  We naturally all had wills, but he didn't specifically cater his life insurance policy payout in the ways many individuals here are recommending.  When he got killed, (2013), his wife received the money & absolutely lost her cookies.  Consistently.  At first she was very reclusive and didn't want to see any of the wives or guys.  Then she started to buy lavishly, go out every night, and fail to maintain bills.  It got to the point where her ex husband took her to court and got the kid.  She still lives outside post, with no money left and working as a cocktail waitress at a strip club.
10/10 agree on the trust account. Every bank has someone who's been there for a billion years and does everything with all of the old ladies who have their husbands money and are going to kick the bucket sooner or later. Working at a bank I see tons of trust accounts set up with my buddy Jeff, who's been around for at least 30 years. Ask for the banker that's been there the longest. They'd be your best bet for opening up trust accounts. Use what you have now to throw into a Money Market account, or something that will build ANY interest over time. That 1.2 mill should be used if absolutely needed. I know you said no need for sorry's but I will press f to pay the respects.  F.
Go see an estate planning attorney! That's what they are there for. Yes, there will be a fee, but it's better than taking bits and pieces of advice from the internet.
-You have a fair amount of debt
-By posting this comment you are admitting you have no idea what to do with the money (that's a good thing because you realize it)
not to be insensitive,. but are you concerned that the insurance wont pay out because of the death being "preventable". almost like suicide? Forgive my ignorance on the subject. 
Nothing I can add here, except that this is a good reminder to anybody with a long-term partner or family that estate planning is something better done sooner rather than later, whether you've got the proverbial sword hanging above your head or not.
There is some great advice here. The only thing I can suggest is to tell her very bluntly that you're only wish is for her to use the money you leave behind responsibly. Tell her the longer the money lasts after you are gone, the longer you are still able to provide for her. My grandmother is in the same situation. She counts her pennies and is still living on the money my grandfather left behind when he passed away over 25 years ago. Peace and love
I would also consult /r/legaladvice
Unless you somehow separated your tax liability from hers (IANAL, so have no idea if that's even possible) she will be on the hook for the $20K and growing in back taxes. The creditors, unless her name is on the instrument that created the debt, cannot make her pay.
Rather than worry about this, perhaps you could both sit down and talk about money. If you are still earning, this may be the time to pay those taxes, and establish savings in her name, so that they cannot be touched by the creditors upon your death.
It sounds as though neither of you has really thought about the consequences of heavy spending till now--and now YOU are thinking about it, not her.
The best gift that you could leave her and your stepdaughter is the newly found desire to live below her means. Assuming that your stepdaughter is under 10, your wife will have about 6 years of additional income from the survivor's benefits to your stepdaughter, to supplement her current $30-40K. 
Is there a reason why she cannot increase her income potential? A very small portion of $1.2M could be spent on education or training to increase her marketability.
If she increases her income from employment to, say $50 to $60K in today's dollars, and can live on $40 K, then she'll not only be able to make that $1.2M last through her retirement, she'll be able to create savings to allow your stepdaughter to attend college with little or no debt upon graduation, and she, too, will be financially secure as an adult.
That's fucked up. You should call out those people so we know who they are
You people are the worst. 
Assuming this is not made up, you don't ask for advice from random strangers on the internet on how to plan a 1.2 million dollar estate transfer. Find a local estate planning attourney who can examine your specific situation and help
You are in a tough situation.
*  figure out the ramifications of your existing debt
*  come up with a budget for everything from funeral expenses, retirement planning, and the first 3 years for your wife.
$1.2M isn't much, ~~especially after taxes~~.  It's transition money, not take care of you in perpetuity money.
Everybody and their dog will be after your wife for a piece of the pie.  She will be in a position where she is very vulnerable, and having the entire sum disappear within 12 months is  a probability, not just a possibility.  ~~Life insurance is not tax-free~~, and taxes on large lump sums are high.  Back taxes also have penalties and interest, which escalates them enormously very quickly.  And oh my lord, you are poked and prodded at every turn when planning a funeral for expensive things that mean absolutely nothing.  These are all reasons to get to an accountant and work out a realistic budget and figure out all the tasks that can be accomplished ASAP.  The fact that it's January and tax season is here is going to make it that much more difficult to accomplish, but believe me an accountant will be much more effective than an estate attorney at this point.  If an estate attorney is necessary or helpful in reducing liabilities or in making things easier on your wife, the accountant will tell you exactly what you need.
As much as people recommend mutual funds and stocks as an investment channel, I'm not particularly in favor of that for people who don't know anything about them.  I would say to do the basics - set up and max out an IRA/roth IRA that can be borrowed against in the future if need be, and set out to learn about investment before trusting anybody. Working the market involves fees, taxes, and it means potentially losing money.  Metaphorically, you can be the person who walks into a jiffy-lube and has no idea what an air filter costs, or you can be the person who at least knows enough to know when you are getting screwed.
Time is short.  Do this together.  Openly communicate.  Realize that neither of you have time to be sensitive about morbid thoughts.  Do not fight.  Do not try to control everything.  There isn't time.  Use the "I'm dying and I really want to do this" card if you have to.  This is your last chance to take care of your wife after you are gone.  
Also, I would push for at least a 1 week solo vacation to somewhere she would never go.  Getting away is a good way of re-centering and people never give themselves a real chance to do it.
EDIT2: I found this link interesting:  http://www.nextavenue.org/1-million-enough-retire/
I have the same problem as you, in fact I spent about 40,000 on a degree in Philosophy so that I might solve it. 
Didn't solve it. 
Gift exchange at Christmas, for instance, just becomes "Here's something that you could've just gotten yourself but I got it for you because this special occasion prompted me to." Which often times reduces to "Here's something you probably don't need, otherwise you'd have gotten it yourself." Only in the case of financial inequality does gift exchange become significant (I.e between a parent and a child or a wealthy man and his poor little brother) but in that case, the significance/benefit is only one sided. Additionally, the attributing of said gift exchanges to predictable dates can also be seen through as a corporate scheme. 
Or how about apologies? For some reason "I'm sorry" is significant to us. But it's not the words themselves that matter really, it's the communicating of sorrow. In other words, we want people to feel like shit once they've made us feel like shit. It's reciprocity. But why does that matter? So that we might not do said thing again since it made us feel like shit? That's not how it works since we only feel like shit after wronging someone if that individual has *made* us feel like shit by letting us know that they're upset with us. If the true purpose of an apology was to signal that we wouldn't do something again, then an apology *should* only be completed once another instance of what just happened, is prevented by the individual who is apologizing. But for some reason, saying "I'm sorry" with a sad face is much preferred to "I won't do it again." with a neutral face. 
Sooo in essence, I feel you man. Life is really just a series of actions that tide us over until death. What you do with those actions doesn't create any more or less meaning for yourself because, even if you cause the death of the human race, we're a blip in the cosmic timeline. The true meaning of life is to just, somehow, convince yourself that there *is* a meaning to life and then to achieve that. That's the only thing that might bring somebody real happiness, and it often does i'm sure. Problem is, some of us just have too much awareness to ever stop seeing the cracks in that illusion. 
At any rate, Godspeed to you (whatever the fuck that means). Life is pain and life is needy, we have to feed ourselves 3 times a day to prevent feeling like turd balls. Most of us have to work 40 hours a week doing something we would never do otherwise (AKA very few of us prefer our jobs to our free time) so we can have a warm place to put our crappers. Death is coming to all of us, yours is just coming maybe 40 years ahead of schedule. Thing is, you called your train conductor and told him to hurry the fuck up. That's respectable to someone like me. Most of us struggle and fight against death because it's a natural biological reaction to fear what we've spent our whole lives trying to prevent. But most of us never ask what the point is. It feels the best to be alive because it's all we know, not because it's actually good to be alive. 
PS: I wore a shirt with a skull on it to work today in your honor. My boss, being slightly superstitious, does not appreciate my tribute. I prefer these lulz to most things in life. I might be a sociopath. 
Im not sure if this has been said yet. You can achieve these goals by naming a trust as the beneficiary of the death benefit. Appoint a trustee that will properly manage the funds and distribute them as needed.
Stay strong buddy.
You could put the money into a trust and then have someone you trust (no pun intended) dole out the money. It would be terrible for her to get the money - blow it - then end up poor. $1.2 mil is enough to retire on, if its handle properly.  
You need to go to a lawyer that specializes in estates/wills/trusts and go over this with them. In your Will, you can basically say exactly how you want the money to be dispersed. No matter how complicated it may seem, when it's all in writing, there's nothing anyone else can do about it.
If you feel she will absolutely need help with the acct and can't do it on her own, then look for a Fiduciary CFP or Advisor.. Fiduciary is key to at least attempt to get someone who will look at her best interests.
You could find someone who does not manage the money but only gives advice too...still Fiduciary though..
You could try this. https://eapps.naic.org/life-policy-locator/#/welcome
Look through her paperwork.  Set aside any interesting papers, such as wills, financial records, etc.
Alternately, a fair number of employees have life insurance through their employment.  Contact her employer.
You can reach out to her employer's HR to see if she had a policy through work if you don't find any documentation in her belongings.
She worked at applebees her wholelife and wasnt good at keeping paperwork around. Not a fancy corporate person who had her life well put together. I dont know if she kept anything around and ive looked pretty much everywhere. She died about 2 weeks ago so Ive gone through just about everything. She didnt have any debts and i inherited her nissan versa worth like 7k but thats it. Is there a national number i can call to locare her life insurance policy? I dont even know if she was keeping up with the premiums honestly but i hope so.. 
I'm sorry for your loss. and as a side note - do not get guilt tripped by any long-lost relatives looking for money, assets or "personal items to remember her by" - They weren't there when she was alive, they can remember her in their memories....(sorry if this seems harsh, but unscrupulous people will try to take advantage when you are vulnerable)
Contact her auto insurance provider. I am an agent myself and even if folks don't have life insurance through me, I make sure to know where they have it because I have had this exact situation happen to me. 
My mum died when I was 23. Not sure if anyone else has stated this and sorry if its obvious - but get her death certificate, make copies and go to every relevant place you can and utilize it. Whatever policies/savings she had for you will almost certainly need copies of said certificate.
(From personal experience)Go to the bank asap! Show the death certificate to gain access to her bank accounts and close them ASAP. This will stop any automatic payments she had set up (verizon/state farm/etc. don't care about death they want their $$$$ and the sooner you lock up her accounts it could be far less payments to track down and get back during an already stressful time in your life). 
I am sorry for your loss and I hope you get every penny your mum set aside for you.
If all else fails, call insurance companies, explain the situation and ask if they have an account in your mom's name. They likely will require you to follow a specific procedure to prove your identity before they divulge anything. 
First, I cannot write with words how horrible your loss is.
Follow the comments here and settle her estate and what debts the estate need to pay as necessary. Then, make no more financial decisions unless the law leaves you with no other option for at least 6 months.
I wish you all the best, OP. 
Source: I used to do this for an insurance company. Lost count of how many people thought it was junk mail & just called me back to demand I stop trying to sell them insurance.
If you find no information or paperwork (or even if you do), keep a watch at your states missing property page.  My mom passed roughly 3 years ago.  All I found were AD&D policies, which I found odd, but maybe she just didn't understand these.  Anyway, I did recently check for missing property again and some came up.  Not much, but something.  May take awhile, but eventually funds can end up there.
My mom passed away in may and I just wanted to say I'm am sorry but ALSO dont let the funeral home sucker you into more or higher charges.    
My sis and I had mom cremated and they started out with a bill over 3k just for the cremation and urn. 
 You dont need a URN  and ( I know this will be hard) talk them down on the cremation. We got 5 copies of her death certificate ( which you will need for any insurance) and the permit to carry human ashes for under $1000.
 Do not assume any of her debts. probating the will for a little bit of insurance money might not be worth it.
 *Watch her mail. She might have a payment for it. 
Many insurance companies run their list of insured against the social security death index and then contact the family on their own to verify the death.  This happened when my dad died.  We didn't even know the policies existed, but they were ones his mother had paid when he was born.  A couple weeks  after the funeral, a letter came asking we contact them.  Maybe ten days later my mom had the checks in her hand.  
You could check with the company she had car insurance through. Some offer life insurance policies. Did she have heath insurance through Applebees? It's possible she also had her life insurance policy through them as well. Check with her bank/credit union to search through transactions for insurance payments. My credit union offers life insurance, so you might check to see if her bank does too. Good luck!
First of all, so very sorry for your loss.  Whether expected, or unexpected this is bound to have you reeling.  Deep breaths.  I'm going to assume she didn't have a will?  Did she own property?  Does she have assets?  
You are getting a lot of mixed advice here is what I would do personally:
Check mail/bank statements (which you have likely done)
Call her work hr department 
Call family and her friends/any potential exs to see what they know
Call the main companies in your area if all those fail.
My mother died when I was 17 and her life insurance company actually found me to do the payout. I never inquired about it they contacted me I sent them a paper and they sent the check. Whoever is her appointed trustee will have that information or you can contact the Social Security Department I think I am unsure but just wanted to let you know that for me and 2004 I didn't actually have to do anything
http://www.protective.com/learning-center/life-insurance/life-insurance-basics/life-insurance-claims-locating-a-life-insurance-policy-after-the-death-of-a-loved-one/  these are some good resources. It can be a scavenger hunt but keep it up. I'm in finances and part of my job is hunting down policies for clients that have had a death in the family. It's amazing what we have been able to find. NAIC.org, states unclaimed property, employers, etc. Good luck
Bank teller here, and my advice would be to start where your mother held her accounts. Ask to speak to a manager or financial services of sorts, and they will guide you through this process. Handling a death is far more extensive than I could have ever imagined, and you should accept all the help you can get. I know in Canada all death benefits, insurance payouts, and so on are made out to an estate account. To establish an estate account, you need a death certificate and all kinds of other paperwork which is why I'm suggesting you start at her financial institution where a professional can guide you through this stressful time.
EDIT: They may even know where she had her insurance policies, all her bills, and potential investments.
I'm so sorry for your loss my friend. With that said, I've been in your shoes. My mother passed away in 2015.
Her mind went before she did and she talked about life insurance but couldn't give any details or remember anything that could help.
When she passed, we arranged payments with a funeral home for her final expenses. On a whim, they did a search for life insurance policies in her name and found hers. They knew what they were doing and was something they did regularly. I don't know if all funeral homes do it or if it was just this one because they are generations old (the great grandfather of the owner started the business) but ask a funeral home. That's all I've got. 
I think this was mentioned but just in case...check with her employer. If she was union look up the contract. She may have elected for a smallish life insurance policy offered by the union or the job. Either the job or the union will know. If she had another job for a long time previous to the most recent one, check that one too. 
Also, if all else fails, your state's department of state (or other catchall state department) will have some provision for unclaimed funds. search "[your state] unclaimed property". Your mom's insurer is very likely to eventually (within a year?) share that info with the state.
My mom ran into the same situation with my Dad.  It's kind of nerve-wracking, but life insurance companies literally ping Social Security on a regular basis to see if one of their policyholders had died.  They contacted my Mom once the Social Security administration was informed.  Took about two months, if I remember correctly.
First off, very sorry for your loss. I didn't go through this exact situation, but I have a policy that changed hands a few times and I hadn't heard anything for a year. My trying to go through the original company just ended up in a dead end. I was finally recommended to contact my state's (Florida) Department of Financial Services - Division of Consumer Services. 
Not sure if this would work for a family member, but worth a check. Good luck
My condolences on the passing of your mom.  Have you checked with her Applebee's?  Sometimes life insurance is offered, or even free through your employer.  Also, contact any credit card companies she may have used - they sometimes offer small policies.  
I went through the same thing with my dad. But saying go through her things to find neccessary feels so disrespectful. I know its got to be done but maybe get someone you trust to help you. I couldn do it. I still can't do. 
Going through the exact same thing. I'm having to file to become Executor of Estate for my dad due to no will. If your mom had a filing cabinet check there, or a safety deposit box.  As dirty as you may feel doing this start being nosy and go through her personal things. 
When my Dad passed two years ago the funeral home found all the policies for me. It took them less than five minutes. I don't know how but it helped trumendously.
Hi lostlife - I'm very sorry for your loss. In Australia you can track such important accounts through a tax file number with the Tax Office. Do you have such equivalent where you live?
Same thing happened to me when i was 13 and nobody can say anything or do anything to make you feel any better, i dont believe in heaven but i do feel that my mum is watching me from somewhere, and i know for a fact she wouldnt want me been depressed about something that is irreversable, me personnally just moved on with my life  and looked towards the future as you shouldnt the let the past effective you thats how i dealt with it anyways, sorry for your loss friend :(
I'm so sorry for your loss.  I'm a single mom to my boy, an only child, and...I'm just so sorry.  Hugs from another mom.
It also may be a policy she obtained through work that her employer would have information about or it may be bundled with one of her other insurances and they'd know about it. 
Hey man, sorry this happened to you. 
One idea: you may be in luck. Any normal insurance company usually sends out a summary of benefits at the end of the year. I know this because I work at a brokers office and we get a copy of all client correspondence sent to our office. We've been getting these steady for a few weeks now that the year has begun. 
Check your moms mail. Depending on how tech savvy she was, she may have signed up for online statements, so check email too if you can. If all else fails, look through her important paperwork if she has any. They always give copies of the insurance application along with a ton of other supplement stuff. 
I assume you already worked through her paper work and didn't find the contract.
As someone whose mother passed unexpectedly at the end of last month, I offer you my condolences.  I can't improve on the good advice the other posters are giving, but you might find some support of a different kind in:  https://www.reddit.com/r/GriefSupport/
My SO has a life insurance policy with his auto insurance company.
I am very sorry for your loss.  
Stay focused on the future, and talk about her when you need to. ♡
My mom keeps all our important documents and heirloom jewelry in a safe. Maybe your mom had one too? It's also possible she took out life insurance through her employer, check out that too. 
Check with her work and with the mortgage company. I have life insurance on my mortgage so if I die it gets paid off. 
There is actually a thing in your state called a policy locator! I work at an insurance company and look for lost policies like your mother's. You need to submit her information (name, dob, possibly ssn) to your states life policy locator and they will send it to all the major life insurance companies (companies on the list, it could be that hers isn't with a major one). If you receive no replies that means there was no policy.  
I'm way late, and don't have any real advice that hasn't already been said, but I lost my father unexpectedly in August 2015 and it was devastating. I just wanted to say I'm sorry for you loss and I hope you find the policy. I hope many many good things happen to you in your life going forward. 
Google your state and insurance department or insurance commissioner.  
Did she have any prearrangements/preplanned funeral services anywhere? If so, go to the funeral home she used and ask them to pull her file which should have copies of her life insurance paperwork. It might be a stretch but if she had any kind of paperwork filed through them, they might be able to help. 
Most likely it is with through her job, or associated with her other insurance policies. 
My father died unexpectedly when I was 22. Not the youngest but still very young compared to the vast majority of others. 
Biggest thing I can advice you is, his life insurance policy took 1.5 years before I got the money from it. The time frame will vary for each case. So prepare yourself for a drastic lifestyle change. And go to work 
Check with her credit card companies and her bank. I have a small amount of coverage automatically from my credit union just for having a checking account. You can also look over her bank and credit card statements to see what she had been paying out each month. Check with Applebees to see if the policy was through them, a lot of restaurants offer things like life insurance and retirement plans to all employees because upper management and corporate employees want those benefits and they don't exclude the lower wage earners. You may also be the beneficiary of a 401k if she had one. 
I am sure this is very overwhelming but just take it one day at a time, you'll do just fine. 
Find it ASAP some companies are horrible and require you to notify them in a certain period or you lose everything
Just went through the same thing.  HR at her place of work will know.    They should have already contacted you, if not contact them asap.
Also, contact any of her other places of work, if it applies.
Honestly my best advice is to get in touch with an estate lawyer, especially if she does not have a will.
I'm very sorry for your loss, and I know it sucks.  This legal stuff isn't easy, but you can ease the process by doing it the right way off the bat.   
Hope you find it.  My mom did something similar except handed me a safe deposit key and just said "it's all yours".  She was tired so never asked what bank. She fell asleep and  never woke up.  Called just about every bank in Michigan.  Nothing. 
Hi OP, my condolences to you for your loss. My mother died 10 years ago unexpectedly and I was contacted by mail from the life insurance company as soon as they had everything finalized with the coroner's office. I didn't even know she had one.
If you are her next of kin, her bank accounts should pass to you as well. This is what happened in my case because the money passed to my stepfather, as he was still legally married to her (even though they were separated.) He gave some money to my grandparents and ran off with the rest. I hope you are next of kin so this does not happen to you.
You never know what will show up.
Just be very careful, I am so sorry for your loss but insurance agencys can be real fuckers and they dont care that youre grieving, find a lawyer because a lot of these companys will try to rip you off and take advantage of you not knowing and being in a grieving state
I would suggest looking around her place for a policy.  While most whole life insurance is paid annually, there are policies that are either a single premium paid up front or for a policy that has been converted to a reduced, paid up, whole life policy (a previous policy was cashed in and the cash value was used to purchase a new, single premium policy).  You may need to search back through bank statements/cancelled checks to find a policy.  An estate lawyer might be of some help.  
Talk to her employers HR Dept. All Salary employees at my company  have one years pay as life insurance. Even if she doesn't have company sponsored insurance she my have purchase life insurance weekly with her paycheck?
Watch the mail like a hawk. File a change of address to send all of the mail to your residence. Open ALL Of it and really look at it even if it looks like it might be junk. I found a stray 3K policy after my mother died that way. It had been tied to some other account she had that offered it as a benefit (a lot of bank accounts have these, I think). Also, safe deposit boxes listed on bank statements, etc. And when you clean out the house, be thorough. Super thorough. More thorough than you have ever been in your life. You'd be amazed at what people will stick in the bottom of garmet bags, between the pages of books, etc. 
Hi. I'm so sorry you've lost your mother so unexpectedly. 
I lost my mom a couple years ago, and I was an only child too. Thankfully I had access to her family as well as all her files and knew her commonly used passwords but I wanted to share something that my estate lawyer told me when I was unsure of what all her estate contained financial wise. 
Things, if they exist, will appear around tax time - so hopefully anything financial your mother will have had will be sending tax forms or has if you have access to her mailbox. That's a good way to find out what all exists. 
Please accept my sincere condolences. Once again, I am so sorry for your loss and hope that the next few months of settling her estate is not too rough. Take care of yourself and allow yourself to feel any and all emotions - any: even laughter or momentary happiness if it arises. Don't feel guilty and please don't feel like you need to be strong for others. It's admirable, but allow yourself the time to grieve. 
Check in her wallet for an insurance card. Most life insurance is done through the health insurance company. If they aren't the ones see if she was on a work plan if so call her works HR they should know exactly who it's with and how to access it .
I'll offer advice not yet given: **Search her phone contacts either via her phone if it's not locked or through her iTunes back up if she has an iPhone. Search for "insurance" and the like.**
Dear God cancel that credit card. If her mother knows she's getting a substantial amount of money she's going to rack up debt on that card so fast and she'll have no choice but to pay it off since it's in her name.
Edit. I have had a long week so I was drinking when I first posted this. And I’m drinking tonight after another long day of work. I understand that the life insurance doesn’t exactly pass through the estate. But dependent on the state if someone tries to challenge it, it can end up in probate so still better safe than sorry. I haven’t handled your exact situation. I’ve worked in litigation for 15 years and only recently joined a large law firm, one of the few with estates as one of the specialties and have dealt with multiple probate litigations although the way our firm is structured I’m not really involved from start to end. But leaving a good paper trail to defend yourself (your friend) is what I’ve learned most in my years of litigation. Whether or not it happens and ends up in probate or not. 
>She is only 19 with no real savings at all and has to constantly bail out her mother financially.
Sounds like grandma wants her grandaughter to ditch her deadbeat mom and run to the hills.
It’s really hard for her to hear, but she does not owe her mother or grandfather anything. There is a reason she skipped them, or there’s not, it’s irrelevant. It’s none of her business why. 
Make sure she (grandma) has as much proof as she can that she’s mentally stable to make this decision. 
How much are we talking here?  Feel free to round off to nearest $10k, $100k or $1M, etc.  There really could be slightly different answers here.
When my mother died the only asset she had was life insurance. She died intestate so it all went to my stepfather. Not only did he cut ties with her adult children and keep the money to himself... but he found out my mother had a separate life insurance with my blind brother as sole beneficiary.  Stepdad tried to convince my brother to deposit the money into stepdads account. When this was refused, blind brother was physically evicted from the house in the middle of the night. 
One of my other brothers had to come and pick him up and give him somewhere to live.  
I would prepare your friend with the (probable) reality that she will no longer have a good relationship with her mother and her grandfather.  She will feel undue pressure to placate them (with money) and that is a tough spot to be in.  Having to tell your own mother “no” over and over is a tough pill to swallow and your friend just may have to do this.
Your friend needs to learn how to set boundaries and stop bailing out her mother.  That is tough for a 19 year old to do though.  She is enabling your mother’s behaviors.  She needs to close out the credit card she already opened or take her mother off of the card and be sure not to co-sign on anything else for anyone.
She will probably need to live completely apart from her family and have minimal contact with any of them because otherwise they will manipulate her into spending all of her money on them and in the end when it runs out she will be broke and still without the family relationships and her family will still be broke.
I'd start with the [windfall wiki](https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinance/wiki/windfall). Also get her a [financial advisor, a fee-only CFP](https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinance/wiki/financialadvisors).
She needs to talk with her grandmother. Grandmother likely has a reason, and a dream of what the money is supposed to be used for. Obviously, grandma's vision won't be binding, but it can help your friend (and possibly the rest of the family) understand and accept this gift.
If the grandmother is still able to, and it's really a sizable amount (like $200k or more), the grandmother could create a trust. (With the help of a laywer). A trust that may for example distribute $20k/year to your friend, and leave the remainder in the trust until your friend is say 25 or 30 years old (and perhaps more capable of withstanding her family members' badgering about giving them some of the money).
Check with insurance agent. It's a good bet that gramps isn't paying the premiums if he don't collect the benefits and grammaw being terminally ill might not be either. And if gramps has been paying premiums he may have a claim to bennies. 
>But other than that, I don't really know what to tell her to do when she gets that money.
Never spend money, not even a penny, because of emotion. Any pressure to spend money, any demand that money must be spent *now, or else,* must  be resisted at all costs.
Since she's the one with the money, and it will be *HER* money, *she's the one with the power, not the people around her that want her money, and she should never let anyone make her doubt that fact*.
She needs to find out why grandma left it to her and not to grandpa. Before anything else
Depends on what you mean sizable amount means. I am interpreting it as 1m+ but I have heard people say they are getting a good wage at $18/hr on here so you may have meant 15k for all I know. If the asset is above six figures, I would go to a lawyer/accountant to set up the appropriate trust fund to park the money and set up payout. You'll need to be wary of potential tax liabilities but that's about it. Once it's in a trust fund, no matter who tries to get in on it won't be able to. People around you could be begging you for money and all you have to say is that you don't own the money anymore. You can't take any amount out of the trust fund as it pays out small amount overtime. 
Damn I hate leeches like that mother, parents should be there to help their kids. Your children are NEVER obligated to aid you with anything but as a parent you got an obligation to do what you can for them. I'm very happy I have parents who always supported and aided me both financially and in career choices instead of being a liability. 
OP be sure to tell your friend not to count on that money so quickly.  If the life insurer gets a hint of the beneficiary dispute they will likely use an interpleader lawsuit to settle the matter so they don’t have to pay two claims. 
Yes, the friend should separate her finances from the family. She should confirm that the grandmother made the change in a right frame of mind. She should plan to lock up the majority of the money in a 1yr CD or something while she figures out what she should do with it.
She should cancel the credit card she let her mom get as well.
OP friend should find out the grandmother's funeral arrangements too. If that wasn't planned she may want to use some of the insurance to take care of it.
Second, listen to the lawyer. Have him set up some sort of trust where she gets a stipend. 
Third, see if friend can get grandmother to get a mental health exam because next will be that friend MADE grandmother give her all that money.
You're so right that friend needs a whole new set of bank accounts. That are so password protected that it makes Fort Knox look like a coffee can in back yard. And freezing her credit too.
A similar thing happened with my grandparents will. From what I know there was more than 250k when my grandfather died and naturally that went to my grandmother.
 She died 3-4 years later and cut my mother out of her will, leaving her only an old tv and a grandfather clock - she never got either of them. She left a lot to our 3 cousins, and split our mothers share between myself and my 2 brothers.
That totalled less than 25k, but I also know that my aunt and uncle (with 2 cousins who got a shitload more) screwed them out of a house that was worth about $1 million at the time (1999) and only paid, I shit you not, $1000. The original sale price to them was $235k. They were "forgiven" $100k first, then the remaining $134k. The signatures are extremely questionable on those documents but since none of us have the money for lawyers, we couldn't do shit.
Life insurance with a sole beneficiary does not pass through the estate and NOT part of the estate, with exception to a Federal Estate Tax aspect that applies that has nothing to do with what we are talking about and doesn't affect your question/answers.  It's paid directly to the beneficiary (your friend) and is their money.  
The grandmother should have the policy change witnessed by 2 non-involved people, or her lawyer and someone in their office.  
Challenging a beneficiary change is not so easy.  People aren't going to be able to "get their hands on" the money unless your friend gives it to them.  She needs to learn how to say "no", and "it's not up for discussion" and invest the money.
I wanted to say that, for the credit card her mom has that your friend is paying for, make sure the credit limit is low and that the mom isn’t just wracking up debt on it to get back at her about this possible inheritance. If her mom is the kind of person to take advantage of her, it might be best to just remove her mom as an authorized user on that card and then essentially “approve” any charges by directly purchasing them herself.
Going to piggy back here.  A few years ago my grandmother changed her will to not include her daughter/my mother, made me the executor, etc regarding all of her finances and estate after she passes.  My mother turned into such a vile person; my grandmother doesn't even want her at her funeral, and I don't blame her.
Is there anything I should do?  She's had it all done with lawyers and everything, so it's legit.  I'm just worried about when that time comes.
Life insurance professional here: (USA)
Life insurance death benefit is not a taxable event. This is why it is popular with high net worth families. 
It does not matter who pays premiums, all that matters is who the owner of the policy designates as the beneficiary and they can do that any time. It is outside of a will and a spouse has no claim.
It would be wise to have an outside person validate grandmother is in her right mind, or was when she made the change.
As for the trust idea, she would need a trustee should could literally trust if she is the beneficiary, and it doesn't sound like that is the case. As a trustee, she would have total control of the assets and it wouldn't keep the money from being used any way she wants. 
She needs a good CPA and attorney to help her navigate setting herself up for whatever she wants to do in the future, assuming the benefit is over $100k. Education plans, living expenses, determining ways this money can help set her up for her adult life. 
She should also close the account her mother is using and never do that again. Parents who do this to their child boggle my mind. 
There is going to be pressure on her to spend this money on family. Quite frankly, SHE has to decide whether she's going to give in to that pressure or not. It's her money and her decision. I hope she gets a counselor or mentor to help her realize she is in control and no decisions have to be made about how to spend or save the money right now. 
\- Not tell anyone else about that money; so many parasites out there. 
\- Don't buy anything expensive right away.  (I knew someone who blew up 50K in a couple of months).  
\- Be ready to take a break from her Mom.  Learn how to say "No" and to hang up the phone when it's necessary.  
Credit card in her name now already? Cut ties asap, not healthy and never ever will be.
She needs to buy a castle and start building a moat... wait, how much money are we talking about here?
No one has mentioned it yet, but doesn't being married override a will in terms of distribution of assets? I am 99% sure that your spouse gets all of your assets when you die, regardless of will. 
Not financial advice, but if the money is substantial, IMO she should consider moving away and starting her life over elsewhere if greed gets the better of her relatives. 
If she doesn’t need the money right now, maybe she could immediately put it all in 5 year CDs or some other long term investment that she “can’t get to” until the greedy parties have lost focus on the money. 
Wait this isn’t estate, just life-insurance...
Just tell everyone she donated it to UNICEF to shut them all up.
That'll shut them up.
Just tell her to hire a lawyer and have it set away until properly distributed with their help
Tell your friend to trim the fat.  Yeah, it's her mom and her grandpa (and ostensibly other family members), but blood relations aren't worth a sacrifice of yourself.
Definitely a new back account, definitely freeze those cards her mom has, definitely retain a lawyer.  If she thinks mom might get physical or otherwise unlawful in trying to claim, she might go to her local police department (at least in the US) and notify them.  Not necessary to file a report or anything, but sometimes having local law enforcement know about a situation in advance can stave off issues down the line.
Among the other advice, I recommend your friends checks out r/raisedbynarcissists which among other things could help her realize she needs to enforce her boundaries with her mother. Idk if her mother is abusive, neglectful, a narcissist etc. but that sub could still help because it sounds like the mom is deadbeat and the sub has a lot of stuff on dealing with shitty parents who don't respect their children's boundaries.
Just Incase it hasn’t been stated. Some states the husband/spouse (assuming the grandfather in this case) has the right to any money regardless of will or paperwork.  Research is the case in the state they are in. 
When she gets the money, she should immediately pay off that CC, and cancel it if she hasn’t already.
When someone is passing, things with family can get messy. It sounds like that is certainly what is going to happen here. I would get her mentally prepared to stand her ground on the issues, be aware that people can get nasty and manipulative when money is involved, and try to remove her from the fallout as much as possible. If she isn't already moved out of the house, get a place ready for her to potentially stay at for a while.
The grandmother probably views the granddaughter as the only one in the family who won't just blow through the money.
She will start to see family as it is - often loveless and simply greedy. I can't count the times I've seen families blown to fucking pieces because of some relatively small inheritance. 
If granny is making her the beneficiary, thinking straight, just open up a new account, set up a fraud alert (because I realized in past few months on this sub that stealing identity is easier than stealing a road sign in US), and claim the money, put it away, forget about it. Or invest it in your own place. Whatever, just take it, it's yours and family is about to show that they don't deserve a penny of it. 
How is the grandfather not the default beneficiary?
Something that has probably already been said...but your friend will most likely need to close everything related to her mother, including the credit card. I would also suggest her getting a new phone and moving to where her mom can't contact her. That way when your friend is ready to talk, she can be the one reaching out.
A warning: if the grandmother isn't of perfectly sound mind, the grandfather has a decent chance of getting the money in court. In many states, things are held by both people in a married couple and leaving something non-trivial to someone other than the spouse is tough if the spouse doesn't want it to happen. 
I would suggest she setup a Trust almost immediately. Meet with a lawyer and explain the process. The trust is a legal entity separate from her and she can put restrictions on how much can leave the trust in any given year unless it’s a specific reason (i.e. home purchase, marriage or child birth). The trustee should be an entity or a law firm where she doesn’t have the pressure to continuously say no or be persuaded. 
Before the money goes into the trust I would set aside x-amount for the mom and x-amount for grandfather. If mom has money issues tell her half the dollar amount you actually sat aside for her (if it’s 50K tell her 25K) so in her mind she will attempt to deplete it much slower. 
This is such a common scenario. I dread the day my mother passes away, for many reasons, obviously, but this being one of them. Greed isn't a good look for anyone. 
My children are not old enough to even know what a will or life insurance is but I feel at peace knowing my wife will do what is best for my family, should something unexpected happen to me. I never realized the amount of comfort I get from that until reading stories like this one. Best of luck OP's friend and I hope their grandmother lives longer than everyone thinks ;)
She should so what her grandmother indeed for her to do. She should ask the grandmother what her intentions are in doing this. 
If your friend has been made beneficiary before grandmother passes, insurance $ will go straight to her and not through the estate.
Your friend's grandmother needs to fill out the necessary paperwork now to make your friend the beneficiary.
Take part from the Dennis system. Separate entirely.
2) This also ensures the $$ is there for your friend upon retirement, so it will benefit her life directly. There is a reason her grandmother left it all to her.  Also, by putting it in an investment account, the $$ is working for her, and will reap dividends for her long term.  
Also, depending on the situation, and the relationships...I would set aside some (or all) of the money for the grandfather, assuming they're still married. If his wife and partner of x years dies, and he's left with crippling debt after providing care to her, and her life insurance goes to their granddaughter, leaving him with crippling debt...I couldn't do that to my grandparents. Funerals aren't usually that cheap. And while it's not usually on the grandchildren to provide funeral expenses, your friend may have been the only one her grandma thought was responsible enough to take care of everything.
I would recommend getting and accountant to start investing for them and have it stowed away in an account far away from the the mother. Other than that, the paperwork is already signed and cannot be forged if you meet with the lawyer and make sure no one is able to leeway the money into their own account through some BS contract or written agreement to the dispersing of the money.
Speak with a lawyer who *solely* works on creating Trusts.  Have her and her grandmother create a Trust, name that trust the beneficiary, and make the Trust lay out the specifics of how the money should be used/distributed.  Benefits include not having it immediately going into her taxable estate, she can defer how much or often she would need to pull on the money, and lastly her relatives will not be able to touch it (must follow rules of trust). Lastly having it in a Trust with specific rules may let her save face with the family because even *she* won't be able to break the rules of the Trust once it's established and her grandmother dies. 
2. If she has any assets the mother can touch, take the mother off.
3. If she's on any of her mother's assets, remove herself so the mother can't claim that she's using the mother's assets and the mother is seeking restitution.
It's obvious why the mother is off, but what about the grandfather?  Is he not mentally sound and she's to take care of him with the money?
I’m curious, you mentioned grandpa is not happy with this situation. What are his financial skills like?  Does he enable his daughter?  Grandma probably has a reason the granddaughter is getting it. What might it take for grandpa to come around/to the reality of this happening. Good luck to your friend. 
Cancel mom's CC.
If she is actively concerned that mom has already opened cards in her name, **look into** **it** sooner rather than later.  I'm not exactly sure how to go about that, but there's got to be a way.
Make sure Grandma is mentally sound, that she understands what she doing, and is doing it on purpose.
If she wants a CC of her own, make sure she's got that set up.
Find a financial advisor, or start learning about personal finance RIGHT NOW.  Understanding what do do with money now (instead of a year from now) can make a MASSIVE difference.
Then put it in long term assets and don't touch it for 30 years. 19 is not a good age to make decisions with that kind of money. I might make an exception for tution and buying a house.
Buy a place far from family and a new phone number too. 
This would almost never be my advice to a 19 year old, but in this case, with manipulative, greedy relatives circling, have her look into a Single Premium Immediate Annuity.  Why?  It takes the large amount of money out of her hands.  She'll get monthly payments and be able to go about her life.  She can tell the relatives that she already bought an annuity (and not tell them any of the details) and say she can't even touch the money any more.
SPIAs are sold like life insurance and tend to be low cost without hidden crap that most annuities carry.  Have the payout start immediately.  It won't look like much since she's so young, but getting a small check every month beats being coerced into giving away a big amount.
I had a friend in the same situation. Her mother and brother bled her dry. 
Cryptocurrency is a form of wealth storage that can be turned into fiat currency at another time.
Even if she loses the phone or the computer that the cryptocurrency was stored on she can recover the cryptocurrency as long as she keeps her private keys or secret words safe. If someone else knows the secret words or the private Keys then the person who knows it can potentially steal it from her.
Oh man, that's tough. I'm actually estranged from my father due to a similar situation, but arguing over grandma's social security/life insurance checks were just the tipping point for my estrangement. Human greed throughout his whole family, half siblings, aunt's/uncle's, and emotional abuse/neglect, made my mom and I leave. Both at separate points in our lives.
If it's sizeable she is going to want to get a lawyer of her own along with a financial advisor. She needs to tell them everything. First thing is to close out that credit card. Do not help her mom out again. Then open a new account at another bank and close the one she is at. Like somebody said, credit freeze. But a financial advisor should be able to help her. Sounds like her family is toxic. It might be best to go no contact after and use that money for college and a place to stay.
At this age I would then attend college somewhere far away from such people and at the end of those four years, the money will be gone and she will have invested it in herself. Even if it isn't fully gone, she can tell everyone that it is 
It will be much easier for your friend to say "no" to the inevitable requests for funds if she sits down and makes a genuine plan for the money in her life. The psychological effect of ear marking dollars is real and will help steel them for the choosingbeggars
I hate seeing families go through greedy situations like this. Real ruthless backstabbing. If the grandfather deserved a portion of it, then your friend can give him some out of kindness, but I pray the mom doesn’t get any if she clearly does not deserve the fortune.
Insurance doesn’t go through probate. The grandmother needs to see an attorney though as a good way to demonstrate she is of sane mind. She should also have a medical doctor examine her and write an affidavit saying that when grandfather comes after the insurance money, assuming GM and GF are still married. 
There might be a way to lock the money up somehow such that it's hard for even her to get, and then she can just blame the lawyer. Like it goes into a trust fund that doles out an amount every month or year to her, and can't otherwise be messed with.
You don't mention how much the life insurance is. Normally with smaller ones it's for funeral expenses. If grandma doesn't already have her wishes planned out or paid for the funeral home will try to convince her to sign the life insurance policy over to them to cover the costs. Funeral homes will not work on contingency. They get payment up front for everything. They WILL try to guilt you into spending a shit ton. They will jack up their prices and lower them to make it sound fair. 
Is your friend the executor of the estate as well? Does she have enough to cover grandma's funeral out of pocket? I would have her have a sit down with Grandma and have a discussion of all of this.
IANAL but I’ve heard in cases like this it can be better for the estate if the benefactor leaves an amount like $1 to people that they don’t want included in the will. This demonstrates that the deceased knew that those people existed but didn’t like them. I’d post this on r/legaladvice if it’s not there already. This topic has come up before and there are specific actions that are helpful when dealing with greedy family members. 
Well, if shes of sound mind tell your friend to just ignore the drama. You may want to have the grandma go talk to a lawyer, and a doctor. Then if it ever gets to point of litigation, she can have some assurances that grandma was doing the right thing of her own free will.
Get a financial advisor and put it into a retirement account. She should just tell her mom that she gave it away to charity so she'll quit trying to leech off of her.
Get an FA, they will do all the work and reduce her tax burden
Dave Ramsey has Endorsed Local Providers that could be fantastic walking her through everything. I don't 100% agree with their investing philosophy, but they'll work with her and help her out throughout this whole process while also being a voice of reason.
Things like, parking the money in a low interest bond for 6 months-to-a-year while all of this settles would be really smart. They can walk her through all of that. She doesn't need to be an expert today or make any big financial decisions. She needs to take time to adjust to the death of her grandmother and the new realities of her family Dynamics. 
this is like the archetypical Estate-bs story, it has it all
Don't know where you are at, but you mentioned the grandfather.  Some states are "community property" states and spouses have a legal right to claim life insurance policies regardless of the beneficiary.
You say the grandfather is upset - I assume this is grandmother's current husband.  There are way too many unknown factors here but it is very possible he would be able to challenge this.
I can't stand it when people view life insurance as some kind of pay day. It's there to cover final costs and to get dependants through the financial void that was their loved ones income. 
If the money does represent a sizable amount then perhaps once she receives it she can take a portion to pay off debt for herself and her mother (as a kind gesture that isn't telegraphed before hand), and then once she is debt free place the entire left over amount into an annuity that pays her an income for the rest of her life, can not ever be drawn from, and her mother can go off and take care of herself.
Maybe that income for life isn't enough to live on, so your friend still has to work,but it will mean she never has to truly worry about anything ever again, and that is the best part.
The best thing your friend can do is move away from her family as soon as she can afford to. I did it and it solves a lot of family issues. If she really cant afford to move tell her to apply for a job at Xanterra parks & resorts. They usually house and feed employees.  All you need is the bus fare to get to them. 
> His adviser has told him that his investments will allow him to live comfortably into at least his late seventies, so there's no worries now but it isn't worth the risk to continue making payments on something that will only deplete his equity.
I wouldn't want any part of this.
> but he's hit 59 1/2 so it went to $300 a month. 
Your math is predicated that the premium will stay the same until 99. It won't. I'm 90% confident it is a yearly renewable adjustable rate, and the premium will continue to sky rocket as he gets older. 
Stay away from life insurance as an investment. It's a terrible investment.
Does he still need life insurance?  You make it sounds like the kids are all independent adults.
> if he lives to 99, the worst I can do is double my investment
Hey OP, hopefully this won't get buried, but it sounds to me like your dad has what is called [term life insurance](https://www.cnbank.com/Your_Bank/Education_and_Advice/CNBU_Articles/Why_Did_The_Premium_On_My_Term_Life_Insurance_Go_Up_/) (vs. whole life insurance); these plans are only designed to be in force for a set duration, usually 10-30 years, after which point the premiums spike DRASTICALLY and continue to rise. This is because he is not supposed to be holding onto this plan past it's "official" term. The point of a term life insurance policy is to keep your family and loved ones covered if you die prematurely so benefit money can be used to, say, help finish paying off the house, or your kids college bills, etc. The idea is that after you hit a certain point, you have your own financial safety net/savings set up and these major life events are in the past. **Whole life insurance** is more expensive (likely even more than the $300/mo), but should not have a drastic spike like this and should not have a cut-off at 99 years of age.  
I'm still new to insurance, and AM NOT licensed for life/health, but I *strongly* recommend you have your dad discuss the possibility of replacing this policy with a licensed agent, because these plans are not designed to be held for more than their term date. If nothing else, contact his current insurer for a payment schedule to see what the monthly payments are going to look like for the next few decades, because I am willing to bet they will keep going up and it will not be worth it to hold onto this plan. He may even be able to replace this term life policy with a new one that will last another 10-30 years (rate would be higher than his old one at inception, but should be lower than current).  
This is, in no way a business or investment decision.  He’s not going to live to 99.  I doubt your siblings are investing in it.  They probably see it as helping to support him when he needs it, and in return, they will get paid back.   If you aren’t able to help him, or don’t want to, then don’t.  Just keep in mind, you’ll always b the one that didn’t.
Sounds like the policy worked as intended.   He should let it lapse, and do something constructive or fun with the premium.  
Buying shares in a family members life insurance policy and looking at it as an investment doesnt seem strangely morbid to anyone?
One thing you're not considering is the fact that it likely is not going to stay $300/mo. It's a term policy that he has now had past it's original term - it is likely that it will readjust every year for the rest of his life. 
I don't think this is as crazy a notion as some here do, from a strictly financial point of view. It would appear to me this policy has a positive expected value. He might be expected to live another twenty years if he was of average health, and it sounds like he is somewhat below that. Twenty years is around the term when you would expect your $50 a month to have grown to about $30,000 at 7% compounding interest. So it would appear there is residual value in maintaining the policy. You also can consider the tax advantage of the term life versus a taxable investment account and subtract another 15% or so from the taxable return.
If he lives to 99, you would have grown your monthly investment to $130,000 at 7% compounding, so you would not have "doubled your investment" compared to a traditional taxable account, you would be at a substantial disadvantage. And obviously if he lives past 99 (who knows what medical advancements are on the horizon), you have effectively gambled and lost that $130,000.
If you have any earned income and you are not doing so already, max out your Roth IRA every year! That is a much less murky and fraught investment.
I have kids myself, and not sure why the title of post just saddened me. 😞
...is it common to have a life insurance policy for 40 years and then have it automatically canceled at the age of 99?  I understand *new* policies not being granted due to age, but canceling one (especially after that long) seems really weird to me.
How did u save 50k your talking saving every single cent you can make working minimum wage for over four years full time... do tell
I'm sorry, but I come from an insanely fucked up family... but who the fuck's parents make them buy a "share" of their life insurance policy? That's not normal at all... and I'm not even sure it's legal, but IANAL.
Jesus that is messed up on so many levels that I can't even comprehend. I'm glad that my parents just left with me with nothing instead of making me decide if I should "invest" or not. 
The spouse would need to sign off that they are aware they are not entitled to it. Could they legally get a piece anyway? 
What if some kids can contribute for 10 years, fall on hard times, and can't pay for 6 months?  Will they get a portion of anything they contributed at the "end" if they stopped giving halfway through? Sounds like it would be a nightmare to manage and possible lawsuits among siblings when he does pass and then you'd get nothing.
> because the premium is going up and lost his job recently.
It's a tool to pool risks - primarily that of a breadwinner dying prematurely. Everyone comes out a bit behind, statistically, but they buy the peace of mind that their families won't starve if they get hit by a car tomorrow. Coming out ahead on a term life insurance policy is somewhat like coming out ahead on lottery tickets; it should not be viewed as a way to give an inheritance.
The premium costs for his policy will probably increase every year until he cancels it, the one at my work is prohibitily expensive after 60, even in your 50s you are generally better off just buying a 10 year term policy than continuing to pay on the up to 99 policy.
The purpose of insurance is risk management.    What risk is your dad managing with adult children?
**Most people buy life insurance as some kind of lottery ticket which is the wrong reason.**    If it's a whole life policy and he can't afford the premium, he should probably take the cash value.
He doesn't need life insurance any more if all his dependents are grown. Let it lapse, or replace with a smaller policy that will cover funeral expenses. Any consumer debt he has dies with him. 
If he owns the policy, he can change his named heir(s) at any time.  
A better idea (IF you want to):  you can simply give your dad $50 a month to help him while he is unemployed (for as long as you can do so and choose to do so) with no expectation of return and he can use it as he needs -- including for his life insurance.
That way you can feel good about helping the guy that raised you and if the insurance policy is cancelled or the proceeds do not go to you, you will save yourself a lot of bitterness.
High risk (many of which are mentioned here) and low reward.  At $50 month for 40 years, you would just get a little less than a 3.3% return on your investment if you made $50,000.  For all the risks you are running (others not paying, or missing a payment, family problems, issues with the insurance company, etc.) it is just not worth a lousy 3.3% for such a high risk investment.  With interest rates going up there will be much lower risk investments (bonds) paying more.  A 50/50 mix of stocks (index funds) and bonds would probably be lower risk with a higher payout.
This is a royally bad investment that will barely beat inflation (after inflation you might make 1-1.5%) and is too high risk.  Avoid the family entanglements that are bound to go bad.
I’m in the business. Either your father has a universal life policy that is chronically under funded or a term policy that is out of its level term period. 
His policy went from 600 a year to 3600 a year???
Your father more than likely had a term life insurance policy. Those were meant to be in force for a designated amount of time and cover a substantial debt or income protection in case of a premature death, which he has survived through. The reason those policies get dramatic increases in premiums is because they are not meant to be continued after the 10,20,30 years he originally signed up for. They will also continue to increase throughout the rest of his life, not just to these new premiums. Had your father had a whole life policy, his premiums would remain level throughout the remainder of his life. Do not "buy" a share in his policy. Tell him if anything, take out a whole life and you will pay a share of that. That way you will not get a rate increase every year. - A Financial Advisor 
>The way I see it, if he lives to 99, the worst I can do is double my investment. (12 months x $50 x 40 years = $24,000.
If you invested that $50 a month for 30 years at a conservative 7% rate compounded annually, you would come out ahead at $61,000. So consider the opportunity cost of this as well as the high risk of default from your siblings. It's not worth the drama IMO 
Never lend money to family. Never try to profit off a family member's death. 
If you were able to save 50k by age 23 why are you on reddit asking for financial advice? Lol
your dad needs to just cancel his policy and be done with this sillyness. The kids are old enough to take care of themselves. Life insurance is not a good investment vehicle. This has the potential to ruin sibling bonds in the future when someone gets married, and can't afford the premiums, so others have to pay to keep their "investment" alive.
This doesn’t make any sense, especially for the value of his policy.
Yes, life insurance premiums do increase over time, but it isn’t a massive jump from an annual premium to a monthly premium, and the increase is very gradual. The frequency of payment is stipulated in the contract, too, so the frequency of which the payment is made isn’t going to change. 
In addition, life insurance companies do not conduct random health audits on their clients to change their premiums. 
It would help to know exactly what kind of insurance your father bought, and what the premium schedule is.
If I had to guess, it's term which was level (payments stay the same) for 20 years, and then in years 21 and up he has the renew the policy and pay a higher premium each year.
When the executor of the estate and insurance company gets around to it the money will only be dealt out to whomever your father listed as a beneficiary on the (I'm assuming) life insurance. There would have to be an agreement (and hopefully a contract) between any surviving kin to divide any assets once all the debts are settled. Remember, death sometimes brings out the worst in people so the chances of something shady happening is very high. 
The smart thing to do in this situation (although slightly morbid) is calculate how much time he has left, work out a payment system, get and keep receipts of these loans that can be settled by the estate should he default on his promise to pay the insurance, and come to an amicable division of the payments between your siblings...in writing.
Use the money to invest instead and you’ll make more in that lifetime than from his payout in 20 years or so 
There are a few things i would bring up based on some comments I saw: 1)  is this 300/month locked in till 99 or is it annually increasing till age 99 at which point it terminates (common for policies out of their term period) 2) if siblings stopped paying and u wanted to continue you could more than likely drop the benefit amount on the policy to match it. 3) the benefit would be tax free return which doesn't look like you factored it in when looking at other invest options returns in comparison 4) good luck:)
Or they do the insurance thing and dont pay anything to anyone?
Haven’t seen anyone say this (but I’m not digging too deep): part of the equation is dad needs help with his payment. I see you value your relationships with siblings enough to not fight over money, but would dad like your help? This seems to be an equitable way for him to get help and not beg or default. How does that factor in to your decision?
Life insurance is (or was) a safeguard for the moneymaker of the house.  It mattered more when you were younger, and the mother was taking care of suckling screaming children and she had no job.  If Dad died then, and you had a mortgage and debt on cars, you would have been screwed.
Personally I would have a moral dilemma if my ROI is solely dependent on my father dying sooner rather than later. 
>The way I see it, if he lives to 99, the worst I can do is double my investment. (12 months x $50 x 40 years = $24,000 invested, $50,000 payout).
Google "time value of money".  That is what you've missed.  You'd be spending money in the short term that which is worth more than the money you will get in the long term in terms of real value/spending power.  
It sounds to me your dad should cancel the insurance. Money lost, but also money gained. 
Life insurance is generally tax free. Which is quite awesome. (not so much the death of your parent) I am one kid of five, so was in a sort of similar situation. My father paid for life insurance forever to make sure his five kids and my mother were taken care of should something happen. Once we all got older he wondered a little why he still had the insurance, but because he had paid for so many years, he decided to keep paying on it so there would eventually be a return. I'm not sure what to recommend to you, though. A lot depends on what you can handle and what your siblings can handle (and maybe how reliable they'll all be doing so). Consider that no one pays and you have to pay the entire $300 each month and maybe make calculations that way. All I know is that it is way awesome to receive a big check that's tax free right when you're at your lowest. You can do things like not work for long stretches or take your own family on a vacation. You'll want some time to grieve and money can help with that a lot. You might also want to consider in your calculations that your father has likely already paid the tax part of this (maybe sweetening the "deal" so to speak). In any event, may he live a long and fruitful life. Dad's a lot more important than money. Miss mine dearly. 
I say no. The investment is not worth your time and money. 6 people making a business deal over 25 years is a big promise. It's better to just invest that money in stocks gradually.
If premiums change or rather the insurance company goes banktupt somehow... Youd risk losing more money or risk losing the policy.
If your fathers family has a history of deaths less then 80 then I'd think it's an okay deal. If your pops is in good shape and doesn't have hypertension or diabetes then this is an awful investment.
As a rule of thumb, life insurance is used to make up income of the dead policy holder.  Buying it for an investment seems kind of morbid(considering it's your father), including the return on your "investment" of barely double in 40 years....At any investment that earns an average of 8%, doubling time is around 10 years.  Way better things to invest your money than this if ya ask me.
You could just take out your OWN life insurance policy on him. 300 a month for 300k is very bad though, you can get better rates.
1. This sounds like either a Term 10 or Term 20? Or maybe even YRT (yearly renewable term) policy. The premium will continue to increase as your dad gets older. Convert this policy to a permenant policy. Insurance companies will allow anyone who is insured, under any health condition to convert thier existing policy to one that will have level (non-increasing) premiums. In this conversion process you can also choose a different death benefit if you want. This could be a great opportunity to negotiate with your siblings about how much insurance payout you want and how much you are all comfortable with paying. So, go to his insurance advisor and ask for his insurance conversion options.
2. Set up a trust that is named as the main beneficiary of the insurance benefit. Have the trust distribute the funds on death in a way that is equal. I’ve seen other comments with more detail, so I’ll leave it
3. Remember that insurance payouts are tax-free. Let’s say that in 20 years you get this insurance pay-out. You will most likely be in a high tax bracket where any other source of incone would be heavily taxed. This could be a giant untaxed cash boost later in life
Try and convince your father to drop that now shit policy. You kids are all grown. He and his wife are retirement age. If they are even remotely comfortable or close to retiring with assets then there is literally no reason for him to have that large of a life insurance policy. 
This is the same reason that it would be ill advised for you to have a large policy. No wife no kids means no one depending on you right now so don’t pay insurance on a risk that doesn’t exist. 
That rate is also going to go up and up and up and up every year until 99 now. There’s no way to win with this type of policy over the long term. 
dude..your parents need help....help them out. If they were good parents, and they are to a point where they are having to sell their life insurance, just help them out.....it's not about the insurance being valuable or not. Heartless. 
I hate to be that person, but is leaving 300k to the family necessary.  Really wouldn’t it make more sense for each of the family to invest the 2k to go toward a burial policy or prepaid funeral expense?
Why does this sound fucked up to me? Reminds me of that twilight zone episode where the old father with lots of money is about to die and all the petty apathetic adult children swarm around him waiting for him to die to collect the money. I won't give away the rest but I'll give away a hint, it doesn't end well for the kids.
I was offered to extend my dad's term policy for a quarter mil. Can't remember the price tag but it expired at age 75, period. He's 72 now and still splits his own firewood.
I saved a bunch of money turning that down.
There's something morbid, potentially divisive and sad about this.
This seems like a bad investment. If you invest the same $600/year over 40 years you would return 260K-1Million+. (Expected S&P500 return between 10-15%.) Investing this capital would also give you more liquidity whenever you wanted and it wouldn't have the dark mechanics of waiting for someone to die. 
On a side note, cancelling the insurance if he manages to live pass 99 years old, that's BULLSHIT!!!!
If I were you, I would just make an agreement with your siblings to just deposit the money into a joint 6-person account, $50-$100 a month for your father, so when the time comes, before or after he is 99 years old. You don't have to pay any taxes etc.
Then you all could use the money for the (I really don't like to say it but here goes) for the funeral expenses etc.
Then the remaining amount, you could split into 6. 
Who are these people with 50k saved while in college and, more importantly, how the fuck did this happen????  I was selling my shit and working 35 hours a week delivering tacos just to pay rent in college!
Wait your father is leveraging his death  to his kids? Twisted.
Your really gonna put money on someone dying? Holy shit. Am I missing something? 
Wtaf? It's your dad. Who the hell would even consider something as vile as investing in their parents demise. Shit I would rather my mum lived long enough to spend every penny she has than to trade in any of that time for financial gain. I know that technically it has no effect, but damn its cold as shit.
I think you haven't taken into account that you father might need help. 
How did you amass 50k while still in school? Did your dad contribute to your education? Not legally but if he did I feel you have some social responsibility. 
What type of life insurance policy is this? Did he get it from work or an outside company? Is it whole life, term, universal, or a group plan? If the payments are going up is it a one time hike from leaving work and keeping their plan? I was a life insurance agent but I am no longer licensed and no long sell it, but I can answer most questions.
Whole life policy?  Wouldn’t it be better to take the cash value of it and shut it down?
Why is the premium going up? Was it a term policy that he converted? If it is post-level term coverage, as opposed to perm coverage or a conversion, premiums may increase annually. Recently these premiums have been increasing more slowly, since only policyholders with poor health would pay large plt premiums.
> The way I see it, if he lives to 99, the worst I can do is double my investment. (12 months x $50 x 40 years = $24,000 invested, $50,000 payout).
Couple of things I can add to the conversation, although it seems like the general consensus is to stay out of paying in to the policy, which I would agree with. First, a lot of people use rhetoric that calls life insurance an investment, it flat out isn't and shouldn't be treated as such. That said, doing a cost benefit analysis does play into whether getting or keeping a policy is worthwhile. Only two types of policies have increasing premium: term and universal life. I believe in owning a fair chunk of term when you're young but as time goes on what you're protecting with the coverage changes and should be updated. Part of this would include either dropping coverage because it's no longer necessary or converting it to whole. Whole life is the best bang for your buck in life insurance since it's priced based on the fact the company knows there will be a claim as long as the policy is in force and unlike term you can stop paying eventually and keep what's called reduced paid-up if you just want to be done paying before the contract says it should. If none of your siblings want to but into this or can't afford to your dad could seek out a company to purchase the policy in what's called a viatical settlement where he loses the legal rights to the policy for a payment less than the face amount assuming the company he sells it to will receive the full amount of the death benefit when he dies. Again, these companies are more likely to humor this idea with a whole life policy due to the guaranteed eventual payout whereas term doesn't have the same guarantee unless the person in question was just diagnosed with a terminal illness. Good luck getting your family straighten this out!
Can he sell it and give you and your siblings the money now? Probably not a good investment, but it would remove a lot of the uncertainty.
Is it normal for life insurance rates to be able to increase over time? I thought the rate was set when you first pick the policy and it's based on your age at the time. I don't know much about these though.
The mere fact that the price went up leads me to believe it is a term policy.
It doesn't matter what type of policy you have when the insured dies, only one that matters is the one in effect.
Don't do this as an investment. If you do do it just to help your old man out. But don't do this as a way to get a pay out later. This could get ugly. 
What kind of policy is it? A term or some sort of whole life? 
I'm guessing his life insurance is a term policy and not a whole life policy.  If so then there will likely be additional steep increases in premiums as he reaches additional age points.  Check that out before you commit.
Is this a Universal Life policy? 
If it was a Whole Life policy with level payments that started many years ago, then I might consider it, but if it's a Universal Life policy with a varying Cost of Insurance, then don't do it. The COI will explode in a few years and you'll probably term the plan. 
Don't do it. 
doesn't he need a licence to sell a security?
You have no guarantees, he would have to change the list of beneficiaries to include each 'contributor'.  How many children are minors and is there a wife or other dependents?  He has several options - First skip on life insurance if the dependent issue no longer exists, Second reduce coverage to $100k or even $75k which will make the premium much lower, Third go get a new insurance policy with a cheaper company. 
600 a year for 40 years at even the most conservative return rate (lets go with 4%) gets you more than double back.
At a 7% you get near 6 times your money back.
* PMT: 600
* and click Future Value
No, this is dumb. Life insurance is geared towards covering people who don't have money saved yet to take care of the family if the person is gone. If all the kids can take care of themselves and your parents have enough saved and no debt there is probably no need for a life insurance policy.
Just tell your dad you love and care about him and you can already take care of yourself because he's done a good job so he should have no regrets about you when he's gone.
yeah thats a bad thing your dad is into..  
other than that his rates seem dramatically high
Umm. Is this a whole life or term policy?
Sounds like your father has some type of term/universal life policy. Has he looked into possibly converting it to whole life? An agent can run illustrations to see when/if a whole life policy could n-pay, or in other words using dividends to reduce or pay the entire premium? Depending upon his insurability of course.  Can this policy be lapsed to a reduced paid up policy?  If the policy has substantial cash value, perhaps he can skip payments. The value could come out via an automatic premium loan...or the cost of insurance deducted. There may be options for your father depending upon which company he has it through and what type of policy you’re dealing with.  Does he have an agent he can call to discuss? It doesn’t hurt to ask. 
Source: me. I worked for a life insurance company for 11 years. 5 of that was in the call center (that’s a million years in call center terms) and worked 6 years processing loans and dividend transactions. 
As a licensed health insurance agent, you need better understanding of his policy. From the way you've described it, it just sounds like info is missing.
Life insurance usually isn’t taxable to a beneficiary. You need to look at the life tables and sit down with an actuary to see if it’s worth it. I’d say no stick your money in index funds. This investment barely will pace inflation. 
The point of life insurance is to protect your income when you have dependents. That is the reason the pricing was structured like that. While your father was making money and had children at home it protected them if he dies early. But after he lost his job then financial dying early is not a problem. So if he could drop the policy use the $300/mo to live on.
OK picture this. Dad kicks the bucket. Insurance paid out. Does he rent or own. Who cleans out dads place? Funeral costs? Does he owe money to credit cards? Lots to be worried about.
Sell the policy to Magna. They are part of a viatical fund, vida Capital. Look it up. 
As another option, there are funds out there that will buy his policy from him for cash depending on some variables (if you’re in the US). It’s illegal in most of Canada. 
You're 23, right... but are any of your sibs still dependent? 
I think pops should cash out the policy and spend the money before he kicks the bucket. But that in no way addresses your question, which you've already answered anyway. Life insurance is not an investment vehicle, true that. 
>The policy terminates at 99, so if he lives past that **we get nothing apparently.**
>The way I see it, if he lives to 99, **the worst I can do is double my investment.** (12 months x $50 x 40 years = $24,000 invested, $50,000 payout).
This doesn't make any sense. You state you'd lose it and then later that you'd double it. Either way, I would avoid this completely. Whole Life is a scam. Adding a derivative of it adds a lot of unnecessary risks.
What you’re not taking into account is opportunity cost. Life insurance companies use stocks and bonds to grow their assets So should you.
He doesn't need life insurance unless he'd leave your mom with tons of debt. If he's in the black, he should just drop the policy. 
- [30-Day Challenge: Audit your insurance coverage!](https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinance/comments/9t98wj/30day_challenge_11_audit_your_insurance_coverage/)
- [All insurance topics](https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinance/wiki/index#wiki_insurance)
Is that your only insurance? $25,000 is not nearly enough insurance for somebody with two kids. Also keep in mind that if you cash the policy out, you may have a taxable gain to pay
Another option is you could 1035 that cash value into a newer, larger policy
These policies have a "guaranteed interest rate" of return.  Such policies underwritten 30 years ago may actually have decent guaranteed rates of 5% or more, and if that's the case you *might* want to keep it.  $25K is nowhere near enough, though - you should supplement it with a substantial pure term life policy, 20- or 30- year term, at least 10 to 12 times your gross income.
Just my experience, but I was able to get a $300k policy for ~50/month. Might be worth it to shop around and see what you can get before cashing out. 
You should have a life insurance policy that at least covers your house in case of your passing. I’m not sure if your wife works now, but think about how much childcare would cost for her and other expenses and debt. 
With many people talking about getting more insurance, it might be worthwhile to call the company and see if you have guaranteed insurability with this policy.  That way you could possibly get quite a bit more insurance without underwriting.  Depending on health this may be very valuable.
Yes, after you've secured a term policy. 
I don’t know anything about whole life but I just wanted to say I’m a lady who runs her household’s finances too and you go girl. That is all.
Regardless of how valid any of these responses are, don't make life decisions like this from people on the internet. 😆
I would focus more on if you have insurance to cover your family if you die.  As it is, the whole life policy is not enough, so assuming you do not have any other insurance, it would be wise to get a 20 year term or so for an amount that will cover your family's needs.
Just based on your demographic and the coverage amount, that policy won't fit your needs. Cash it out for sure.
Source: I am a life insurance actuary
Might have been said before (responses Too long) but I have an old whole life policy that pays a dividend of 8%. Still pay premium because it buys additional coverage but I could not pay premium and dividend could be used to cover that. Sometimes you cannot replace what you already have. Read the policy
I'm an insurance advisor and nobody in this thread is giving you proper advice. 
The amount of information you've given is insufficient to determin what to do. Find the policy, look at when your payments cease and look at the increase in cash value per year. Usually close to 20 years the cash value starts to jump up drastically per year. I would recommend to hold the policy till later in life, and as it grows you can use it as collateral to take our a loan of that amount with very low interest and 0 tax. But again get some professional advice , it won't cost you anything. 
Hi! Financial advisor here - keep the policy. Whole life for $18 is dirt cheap and that policy will take care of burial costs and possibly medical bills ect when the time comes. 
Whole life with most companies is not sold as an investment vehicle and people here hate it for that reason. But in all likelihood you’ll still need it when you’re old after any term insurance expires. If you hit age 80 and suddenly decide you need a $25k policy it will be exponentially more expensive and you likely won’t qualify for it. 
Your parents did you a huge favor buying you one when you were that young. It’s a waste to cash it out in the hopes that whatever else you use the money for will be worth it to your family down the road. 
My wife just passed away.
She had been diagnosed with leukemia nearly 20 years ago and beat it - but we were never able to get any insurance on her.  Thank God her parents bought two life insurance policies for her before she got sick. It was all the insurance we had.
My advice - do not cash in that policy.
Per dollar, you'd get 20k in coverage at 50/m.... Right now you, you're getting 1.4k in coverage for every dollar.
1. It's a number that, for now, will still provide good value against inflation for it's duration.
People tend to not realize that term life insurance death benefits are tax free and avoid probate if beneficiaries are named. So if you have 1 mil in DB and die, that is exactly what they will receive within 30 days of your death. 
Just remember that investing is deferring spending in hopes of a financial gain. Insuring is spending now in hopes of avoiding financial loss. The two are really complete opposites. The term insurance provides a nice hedge in the case you were to pass early and help your loved ones. 
Source: A financial advisor who will sometimes help clients with their term life insurance needs.
That is to say, our monthly insurance costs for a $500k per person policy (if we both die kiddo gets a cool million) are \~$50/month for life (we were super healthy and 25 when we started). We're guaranteed a 1% interest rate even if the market tanks. There is a monthly expense charge that's considerably less than our guaranteed interest rate, but definitely higher than a Vanguard account as the one downside.
if/when our kids go to college, any money in that account doesn't count as assets on a FAFSA since it's a life insurance policy. I can get a check as a 'loan' for up to the full cash value in the account, free from any capital gains tax, that I pay back to myself (with interest), and anything left un paid is taken out of the death benefit or counts as taxable income against the estate (e.g. if I have $1,000,000 in the account and take out $750k to buy a house, then die before I've paid down that $750k, the death benefit of $500k is consumed and my estate owes whatever estate taxes it owes as though the $250k were assets).
I was in a similar situation and moved the money into an investment fund closing out the policy.
I struggled (and continue to) with the concept of life insurance. Sure it feels good to know you are leaving something behind for your spouse and/or family if you pass early. But if you were to take the save money and put it into a fund of some type and allow it to grow over time. If you die, your family can use that money saved to cover your death costs.
The only way I see such a plan works out is if you are unable to save and risk bankruptcy, which a 25k plan won't likely dent. OR if you are wealthy enough to justify using tax free investment vehicle or shield against estate death taxes.
Of course I'm just a layman given my take on it.
Time to cash that thing out and get a term policy.  Hopefully, in 10-20 years after you have saved enough you won't need any life insurance because your assets will be higher than your policy amount.
As a person who sells insurance, I'm probably a little biased on this, but I would keep the policy. You could get more in a term policy, if having more coverage is a concern for you. That would help you with leaving something for your family to replace your income and keep them in the same position they are now. If you aren't worried about that and just want to have your funeral expenses covered, I would just keep it. You'll never be able to get it cheaper than that no matter what. Plus the term will stay the same price for 10/20/30 years, depending on what you choose, but will significantly increase 3-5x what you would pay now; whereas, the whole life policy will never change in premium. Also, depending on the type of whole life policy, it could pay out the face value and the cash value at your passing.
Typically on a while life policy there really won't be much in terms of taxable gains if any. A whole life policy is a simple type of policy that doesn't have a lot of strings. You pay the premium every month that doesn't go up or down and you have that amount of coverage. Term is cheaper but after 55 it gets pretty expensive.
In the end, insurance is just a gamble. Personally I would hang on to the policy and you can just get additional insurance elsewhere to compliment it. If worse comes to worse and I can't pay my bills, only then would I cash it out. But that's just me..... 
Keep paying the $18 a month for your whole life insurance policy. Consider this your "final" expense policy. This policy is in place so your children and/or wife/partner have money bury you and take care of any of your necessary final expenses. This lasts for your entire life and you will never have to pay more than $18 a month. Your parents gave you a great gift, and it isn't worth the $4200 that you would get cashing it in today.
If you get rid of this policy and in 20 years try to get a final expense policy or $25k whole life for the end of your life to cover your expenses, you will pay a heck of a lot more than $18 a month.
Also, other people on here ARE right. You need a big term policy to cover your kids and your wife/partner in case something happens to you today. Term insurance is cheaper and had a limited duration. Sounds like you probably need at least $500K reasonably, but it depends on a lot of factors and how you want to leave your family if you pass. 
But once college is paid for, mortgage is paid off, and the kids are out of the house you won't need it as much, and that's where that nice little $25k policy comes into play. That will be there to make your family's life much easier when you pass. 
My husband got a 30 year term, 600k policy for $50/month. A 20yr would have been 1million and only $40/month. And he’s 38 years old. Ditch that one somehow and put that money towards a policy big enough to actually help your family if you pass.
No you can’t use the money when your gone, but your spouse and children can. $25,000 and 216 a year is a great deal compared to term life and a policy disappeared. I pay a bit less for 15,000 and it will at least pay out the policy plus interest which can be a significant amount, that’s good for your loved ones. Take it now and its income. 
This might sound like a I'm crazy, but I'm paying 125$ per month for my wife and me to each have a 75,000 whole life policy. I keep getting the feeling that this is an outrageous price but haven't done much research. Can anyone more knowledgeable way in. We're late 20s early 30s.
I didn't know you could cash out a life insurance policy...
Keep it, and check to see if it has a provision to increase it even two or three years with no physical examination required.  You need to have this, at a minimum, to prevent your family from the burden of funeral expenses should something happen to you, and if you can increase it, to provide something more for your family if you’re not around anymore.  This is the cheapest life insurance you’ll ever have.
I know a guy (an attorney) who, despite being quite successful, has no life insurance at all.  His opinion is that it’s of no value to him.  He’s also a massive DICK, so that would explain why he doesn’t care about his family if he dies.
Cash it out and buy term. 
Is no one going to talk about whole life vs term life? Specifically, a policy of the kind that OP possesses is NOT a term life since it has an investment component to it -- which makes it far more expensive than a term life policy that has only an insurance component.
Depending on OP's other assets, health profile, investment risk preferences, investment savvy, retirement horizon, etc., there are several ways forward. The collective wisdom of the posts to secure a cheaper (on a per $1k of coverage basis) term life BEFORE he does anything with his current policy is likely the most appropriate next step, but he needs to understand both life insurance products and spec out some of the points at the start of this paragraph.
Cash out after you get a term policy. Don't keep throwing good money after bad money.
You may want to look into a term policy that gives you the option to extend it until you're 80 years old.
You get a normal premium for the first 30 years, and after that, you can either let the policy lapse (if you feel you're self insured), or you can keep paying higher premiums, and the policy lasts until you're 80 years old. 
Generally speaking you want to pay $1-$2 per year per 1k in coverage. For 25k that's $25-$50. You are paying $216. Try and convert into a bigger coverage or just cash out and get a new policy that covers at least 2x-4x your annual salary. 
Seeing as you have children and haven't said that you have alternative life insurance, I would keep it. That is a very cheap policy and it will provide your family should something unexpected happen.  I would also suggest adding a larger term policy that covers you until after your kids are grown.
Call the insurer up and see if you can speak with a wholesaler about your situation and what your options are regarding policy flexibility (some carriers let customers speak to their wholesalers, some make you go through an agent in their field force).  Since it's a whole life policy you may be able to "pay it up", meaning no further premiums are required for the policy to remain in force for the rest of your life.  Alternatively, since you're an adult with young children and only $25k of DB coverage, you may also want to look into 1035'ing the cash value of your existing policy (~$4k) into a new, more robust policy with a greater amount of coverage.  Keep in mind that you will NOT be able to "1035" into a term policy since there is no cash value to a term contract.  Or, you could keep this policy just as it is and then supplement additional coverage on your own.  Just my 2cents.
This is also assuming that the full benefit is $25000. If it’s $25000 + the cash value of the policy, then it pushes the breakeven age back at least a few years. It enough to cover funeral expenses, which can be important, but you could cash the policy and invest the $216/ year to cover off funeral expenses.
I would suggest keeping it. Since it’s whole life your premium shouldn’t go up much higher. I would either shop around or try to bump up the coverage so you can keep that policy and pay around the same. If you really need the money or want to invest it in something else, do it. Your parents were smart to think ahead. 
At some point you can "pop" the policy and would not have to pay the premiums anymore as the policy can pay itself.
I would reach out to the company to see when your pop date is but I wouldn't give this up
I just got  a 30 year 600,000 life insurance policy (enough to cover the mortgage) for 57 a month. 
Whole/universal life insurance is shit. It’s terrible. 
Dump your whole insurance and get enough term insurance to cover your mortgage. 
4200+18/mo compounded at 9% is about 25k in 15 years. It's not going to pay for anything but a funeral. Get a term policy because you need one anyway and then cash it.
I'm 32 and have 2 kids with a $500k policy good for another 20 years. I pay around $30 for it. I would cash that yours out, then get a better policy. $25k is nothing today.
Yes. Whole life is the biggest RIP off in the insurance industry. And the whole industry is a RIP off, so that's saying something.
Why not just save it?  You never know when unexpected funeral/final expenses come up.  My cousins just went through this when my Uncle died unexpectedly.  
If you're really in the need for money, you could always take a loan against the policy. 
Meaning, taking some of the cash value and losing that as a payout, but still keeping the policy active. Life insurance is strange and there are a few things you can do to modify it to your situation. It's really best to talk to whoever services the policy about it. 
But 18$ a month and it's only growing is pretty good for a whole life. 
Cashing that policy out would allow you to pay for term life insurance for the next 20-30 years when you actually need the insurance (while you have dependents, house not paid off, etc) without an additional dime out of pocket. And probably more coverage.
I wouldn’t cash this out. You should definitely have more coverage, at least a term policy for the cost of your mortgage and a couple years of income so that your family can support themselves and have a place to live. This current policy would cover funeral costs and then some, which will matter to whoever has to pay for your services when the time comes. 
Your premium is as low as it will ever be. The longer you hang onto it, the higher the value will be if you ever do decide to cash out. You might get a higher return with the money, but it’s a higher risk also. 
Talk to a professional who can discuss your whole situation. It depends what it’s for. Life insurance is not an investment. It’s there to protect your family financially when you pass. Term and whole life both have their own purposes. While term is cheap now when you’re young, it gets wildly more expensive when you get older. If you build up good retirement savings to pass on, great, but that money gets taxed when it goes to children and they may not have access to it right away depending on how it’s set up. Probate can take a long time and have it’s own costs. Whole life insurance gives a guaranteed tax free payout to your beneficiary and you can usually get it within 1-2 weeks. I was a former insurance agent and we called it “final expense” insurance. It’s not meant to take care of your family, it’s meant to ease the immediate financial burden of someone passing. I met with a lot of folks in there 60s+ who’s term insurance had expired and they either no longer qualified for more due to health issues or it was extremely expensive. One policy was going to jump in premium if they renewed to over $800 a month. In these cases, if they had nothing else, the only option was whole life and because of their health and age it was $100+ a month for a benefit similar to yours. But these people would rather pay it than leave their families with a bill when they pass. So, it depends on how well you’ve prepared and everything else you and your family have done. Sit down and talk with a professional and discuss your options.
Pull it out, buy a term for what you need and then put the cash from the Whole Life into an investment. 
 I don't recommend getting rid of it, unless you need the cash for some reason.  For me, it's a good little extra "emergency fund."  
Well, even if you lived to 72, your kids would still have made $10k. 
I currently pay $10 a month for a $90000 10 year term life policy. I'd probably look for something better if I were you
Dump it and use that money to pay off any debt and then get a term life policy to cover 10x your annual income.  Do this before you turn 40 or else its going to be A LOT LOTmore expensive.  
Keep it and look into expanding the coverage. Or keep the policy as is and buy additional inexpensive term insurance. When you're older and kids are grown the $25k policy could be useful for your final expenses. At 36 with a wife and two little ones, you need to consider how much money your wife would need to pay for household expenses, mortgage, and children's education should you be gone tomorrow. That could be as much as $500k or more depending on your lifestyle. You might be able to purchase discounted life insurance through your employer.
I didn’t have enough time to look through all the comments but if the insurer has term life you should look to convert the policy instead of applying or taking out the money which has tax implications. The insurer I worked for allowed conversion which did not look at current health so it should be the cheapest option to increase coverage if needed. 
If you really need the money and it's your last resort then sell it. If you don't need the money and can afford the payments just hold onto it. Many people thinking about it as an investment but think about it as one less headache for your children when you pass. It's $25k tax free pay out when you pass away to your beneficiary (your children I presume). That's one less burden if you die suddenly on your loved ones to pay for your funeral. Those aren't cheap and after footing the bill for one of my grandparents I invested into a big whole life policy to help my loved ones fund a funeral for me and then some. Yeah I can money market the money or long term CD but that takes time to mature. This is a just in case some crazy shit happens and you die suddenly.
Cash it out and buy term.  I've got 500k term that I pay 31 a month for.
I would absolutely not cash out that policy unless you’re planning on getting another.
I work with insurance for a living, I would say convert the policy into a larger ROP or Term plan for your family, for what youre paying you should get way more coverage. 
Another way to look at it is this: 
used to work in the industry. NO!!! every year, every kid, every drs trip etc causes your premium to go up. if you applied for the same insurance coverage today you would be paying a lot more than 18 a month. over the course of your life, saving 18 a month in the short term could cost you thousands/tens of thousands of dollars down the road
thats why insurance companies allow you to cash out. they know they'll make more money from you if you do that then if you don't
I wouldn't get rid of it. With premiums that low it's worth keeping. You never know what medical things will pop up in the future which could make it impossible for you to get any more coverange.
If you're strapped for cash you could check and see if you can "borrow" from the cash value of the policy and pay it back over time. Its essentially like giving yourself a loan with a way lower interest rate.
KEEP IT. Hell, you can hardly buy a funeral any more for 25K!
The investment doesn't go down when the market crashes which makes it a perfect alternative cash source during down years. Take those dividend during bad years or cash out it instead of equity investments. The death of the policy holder also creates an immediate estate and this is completely non taxable, including the full appreciated cash value of the policy plus all additional investments.
Depending on the state you live in and the policy itself, there's are likely some free riders provided by the company. This gives you the ability to draw out the death benefit from your policy immediately if you are determined terminal or expected to pass soon. This is known as the accelerated death benefit rider. Your wife should also have the ability to purchase a duplicate policy that you have for herself with no additional proof of insurability (which is amazing as health is guaranteed to worsen over time). This is known as the spousal purchase up insurance purchase option. These feature are free but you have to have accepted it to recieve the benefit.
18 dollars a month? Keep that, you'll never find a rate like that again.
Never understood why children need life insurance 
It’s a human capital replacement
$18/month for $25k doesn't seem like a good deal for life insurance. I'm a bit older than you, and I took out a $1M, 15-year term policy last year, for which the monthly premium is $41.13.
I realize that your policy has a cash value, but the premium is really high for such low coverage. The main purpose of life insurance is to protect your family should something happen to you, and the $25k coverage won't help much.
If you want to save $4,200, you could put $15/month into a decent mutual fund over 15 years. I'm guessing that the package your parents bought is really mostly an investment plan, and only a small portion of the premium is going towards the life insurance piece.
Many other people have suggested that this policy is not enough and I’d agree if it’s your only policy but I’d highly suggest working with a financial planner to find out how much coverage you need based on your circumstances.
As far as this policy goes, you should find out the payment duration. You’re only paying $18 a month now but depending on the payment duration, it could be worth it to keep this policy. For example, if the payment duration is for 30 years that means that you’d pay $18/mo for 30 years but then the policy would be paid up and would provide a death benefit no matter your age when you pass.
Some suggested a 1035 exchange (move the cash value from this policy to another, tax free) when you’d directly transfer the funds from one company to another. Again, I’d advise working with a financial advisor to help you find the right policy for you and help with the 1035 process. If you just cancel this policy, there could be a taxable gain. Your insurance company could tell you how much of the cash would be taxable.
You need a larger policy. I'd keep what you have because there's no medical underwriting required for it now. Just get an additional policy for the remainder.
I used to work at a major Life insurance company. One thing I would look at is to see if your policy is earning dividends. If it is you can have to policy pay for itself and you can keep the policy without cost to you. Just a thought.
First get a Term policy if you feel the need for life insurance coverage. Sounds like you might. Then cash out that whole life junk.
Married with two kids, keep your life insurance and buy some more.
I'm paying $40/month for a 30 year term $500K policy. Your $18/month for $25K doesn't seem worth it. I am personally not a fan on whole life insurance. 
Depending on the terms, you may be able to borrow against the policy rather than officially cash out. Not a taxable withdrawal if it's a loan, even if you decide to never pay it back. 
I'd cash it out and use it towards a term life 20 years for your kids. I have 2 million on my wife and I each and it's like 1400 a year combined.
I do not have time to read 460 comments, but you should NOT sell it. Unlike term life, this policy is an investment. Whole life policies have lots of up front costs but the longer it has been paid into the greater the benefits. After a while it pays for itself. You can borrow against it. When you are old people will offer to buy it from you. 
So while you may not want to initiate this policy today, you should keep it. I know, I just turned over whole life policies to my two kids. I started then when the boys were 9 and 12.  
You are not gonna find a whole life policy for anywhere close to that premium at your current age. I would suggest getting more coverage due to having children to support and a mortgage to pay off in case you die sooner rather than later in a different policy (term would be easy and affordable, but another whole life can have some extra benefits and won’t run out the moment a term expires), but having the safety of a small whole life policy for a really small monthly premium can’t hurt. You may want to check if the insurer will give you a “paid-up” option where you can increase the payment to stop paying premium on it by a certain age or even immediately if you’re really not wanting to keep paying the $18 a month for it. Not all contracts will do this, and a lot need this option specified when it’s created, but it doesn’t hurt to check with them. 
Imo, keep it. It’s not very expensive and having a small guaranteed death benefit to help with funeral costs is nice if you find yourself having trouble getting affordable coverage the older you get. And there’s the added benefits of having the cash value for low interest loans if you find yourself in some dire financial situation down the road
Cash it out and call Zander insurance for a term policy. I literally have a million dollars on my husband for 25$ a month. And 2 child riders. There's $500k on me for 35$ but I have an autoimmune disease. 
Get the new policy in place before you cancel the whole life though. 
I had one of these policies.. cash it out..
Also if you die before you cash it out.. your benefices do not cash it out, it is gone back to the insurance company 
I was paying 15.00 a month for 35k and I now have a 200k policy for less than $150 a year.
Even when I called to cancel my policy the agent agreed it was crap. 
Okay. I recently sat down and discussed life insurance with a guy AT LENGTH, and we talked about whole life policies for kids. 
Here's how it works, in English. 
You can still have this insurance at age 100, and it costs you nothing to maintain. You're going to die soon at that age, and they're going to pay, and there's NO other insurance type that will do that. 
Know what I mean? I'm 34, and just purchased a term policy that will expire in 20 years. It's cheap, now. Because I'm 34 and healthy. But when I'm 55, If I don't re-up my policy, I'll die without benefits.
IF I had had a whole life policy, rather than get a term policy, I could have instead added more value to the whole life policy, and that policy would never expire. 
The only difficulty with the whole life policy is building up the value to a reasonable cushion. 
I would be stoked to have a whole life policy at this time.
Im only the son of a financial advisor, that knows a fair share about life policies, but Ive always heard him say term life policies are way better than cash value, since you end up getting very low coverage and most of the money from the cash value still goes to the coverage itself. Hes always told me its better to have a term life insurance policy, and have a separete account for investments and 401ks and such. 
You're getting a lot of mixed answers so here's why you should or shouldn't keep it (and the in between that I haven't seen):
-$18/month is extremely cheap for whole life. This is because it was bought when you were a child so that premium becomes fixed or life. If you got rid of this policy and decided you want a new whole life policy later, it will be more expensive. Term will be much cheaper (I suggest you get some anyway given that even scaled up, the $25k is likely not enough) but will increase in cost after the term is up. Additionally, if you die any amount of time after term expires, the company has no obligation to pay a death benefit. Whole life will never go away if you pay for it. 
-You can take a loan from the policy up to the full cash value with no tax implication, but will accrue interest until repaid.
-You will not have to pay taxes on cost basis (what has been paid into the policy), but have to pay income taxes on the rest.
-You can cash out PART of the cash value without the policy collapsing. It's usually up to ~95% of the cash value. This will reduce the scaled value of the policy. (For example, say your policy was now worth $29,200 and you took $1,000 out, you scale back down to $28,200).
-Long story short, do you need the money? If so, you can likely cash out the policy and get a new term or whole life. Whole life will be more expensive than $18/month but you could possibly get a better policy. Your health will also play a factor in cost (if you've had cancer or something serious in the recent past you should keep the policy). I'm not telling you what to do but you should consider these factors when you decide. 
Get rid of it. At your age with kids get some term life until the kids are gone and self supporting. Save the money putting into the whole life into IRA, Roth or even a CD. 
The beauty is that when you take a loan you arent really taking the cash value out.  The insurance company gives you the loan and uses your cash value as collateral so your cash value continues to grow even while you have an outstanding loan.  The guaranteed minimum return coupled with avoiding the opportunity cost of not letting your dollars grow can potentially make this a great vehicle to finance future major capital purchases.
I would keep it. Whole Life gives you a 4.5% return and it has the benefit of giving your loved ones financial protection if you snuffed it. 4.5 isnt the highest, but its higher than what a mutual bond or Roth IRA will get you
Perhaps consider taking the money and contributing to a Roth IRA account. The annual cap is 6k but if you do it in time before April 15th, you can technically contribute for 2018. 
Depends what you intend to do with the money. 
Yes, cash it out to invest on your own and get some term insurance!
I haven't seen anyone bring this up in the billion life insurance threads I've read. It's always if you have dependents get life insurance. 
Here is my question: Can I not just get it to give my brother/nieces and nephews a fat pay day? I don't ever plan on having children in my life, but I want to give my brother and his family whatever I can when I die. Of course, I would like my future spouse if I get married to get paid also. I see a lot of people say it is just to cover lost income and I totally get that, but what if I want to just pay it and be like "hey nephew, I died. Here's a million dollars". That would be sick.
If you can't do a wash loan, I would probably try a 1035 exchange and roll it over into a different policy. You'll likely end up paying higher premiums over the short term, but you'll be able to have a higher death benefit as well as accrue more cash value. If you do go this route, look for an IUL policy as you'll have more exposure to the markets - limited upside and no downside. You can have your agent find a policy that maximizes death benefit if that's your concern. If your concern is income or cash value accumulation, have them find a policy that puts an emphasis on that.
Former insurance agent here. You're lucky your parents took it out when you were a kid. Premiums are based on age and you won't get any cheaper than $18 a month. Keep it, and when you turn 37 next year, you will have a GPO (Guaranteed Purchase Option) that will allow you to add more coverage to reflect your different life situation. Take it. Your premium will increase, but won't be as high as if you took out a whole new policy at your current age. You'll have one more GPO at age 40 if you want it. Whole life insurance is always worth it since once you have it, you have it (no re-qualification) it's paid off, it's paid off, and it's always guaranteed, no matter what, unlike term insurance.
If you can afford the premiums, I would just keep the policy. If nothing else, you can look at it as a "final expenses" policy that will help cover your expenses when you pass away (hopefully a very long time from now). I know that's morbid, but hey - we're talking about life insurance here. 
That being said, if this is your only life insurance, you need a lot more coverage. If you're familiar with all of this, feel free to ignore the following: As a husband with 2 kids, if something happens to you unexpectedly, you're going to have an income gap that your wife is going to need to make up. You're also going to want to make sure your standard of living remains the same for her and your kids after you're gone. I.e. - keep your house, make all your payments on time, get your kids through college, etc. Think about all the expenses you and your wife would be paying from now until your kids are, say, 22. Total that up. If your wife works and contributes to the finances, then divide that number in half (or proportional to whatever hers and your take home pay are). That's how much life insurance coverage you should have. Ideally, you and your wife would both have similar policies. This is why you see people that have $1 million or more 30-year term life policies.
Once you're older, you don't need as much coverage because, presumably, you've paid down your mortgage (or paid it off altogether), your cars are paid for, your kids are through school and living on their own, and your debt to income ratio is much lower. That whole life policy you have now, is icing on the cake and will relieve your family of some of the burden of your final expenses. 
I would cash out.  Term + Difference from a whole life policy into an investment account would be the same cost but yield significantly more benefit in the short and long-term.
I cashed mine out that was only valued at 6k after 30 years. Total scam if you ask me. 
You need lots more insurance and at your age (assuming you don’t smoke or weigh too much) the premiums are very affordable. Get at least a 20 year term policy with fixed payments. It’ll give you peace of mind at least.
Just providing some background on why I asked. 
I would really just like to not have that payment...
Edit: I'm single with 1 almost grown child, Near zero debt.
Can I hijack this thread to get advice on a similar issue? My fiancee's parents had her get whole life insurance at 18 years old (she is now 24). The WL policy is for $100,000 and her premiums are $980 per year. Neither of us have much money yet, so that is a lot of money to us. Currently, her only debt is student loans that total $78,000, which her parents co-signed on. I own our house and have a term life policy to cover the mortgage, should something happen to me. Based on the exhaustive research I've done on here and elsewhere, it seems the recommendation is to drop the WL, get TL, and invest the difference. According to online quotes based on her age and health, it'd be like $12/month, so about $70/month difference to go to a Roth IRA or something. We're just afraid we're going to regret dropping it when we're in our late 50s. Would it make sense to instead reduce the policy to like $25,000 for a lower premium and just hold on to it forever to cover funeral costs? I would LOVE some personal advice for our situation as I've been doing so much research lately. Thanks!
Get a term life insurance policy for 10-12x your gross income, and once that is in place cancel the whole life.
Keep it and have the premiums go towards increased coverage instead of cash value.  If you have a chronic illness you could lose your insurability, but this can never be cancelled.  Never cash out a whole life policy like this, work to expand it.
Keep it until your wealthy enough not to care about it in which you'll probably still pay it out of habit.
I have history in this field I don't use it,
If your all for it can add 100k accidental just to mix it up. it'll prlly only be a dollar or 2 more. The whole life is important because those rates are locked in, if you have a hefty savings and assets you could cash. Some companies will hand out 2k insurance policy for free but it's accidental. 
Two kids and a wife at 25000? If you own a home your life insurance should cover your mortgage and the care for your kids throughout life..if you plan to send them to college that should also be covered...$25000 isn’t going to cover anything.  Plan appropriately life isn’t guaranteed and if your the bread winner you kids and wife will be fucked when you die.  My wife and I both carry $1.0M policies and I have two because I own a business.  Get a financial planner.
Keep it.  For 18 its cheap. 
Whole life = only face value of policy at your death. Regardless of how much you have paid in.
It has one of the highest commissions of any life insurance, which is why sales people push it. You could make more $ if you invest that monthly amount in a retirement account. 
Whole life has several aspects. It is an investment vehicle, but it has limits. It basically behaves like a corporate bond. It is life insurance. So you don't need other life insurance (though at $25k you don't have adequate coverage.
It is not like your other assets. In divorce, its not counted as a joint asset in most cases. It is not counted towards assets when calculating wealth for college financial aid for children. But your financial portfolio should have some conservative, bond like, vehicles and this would fill that role.
Get a projection for the cash value in the future from the agent. That stuff can pileup. Basically you pay the insurance part first, and then the money goes towards the investment. I am assuming that your policy is not very old based on the cash value of $4.2k. 
Secure and complete underwriting for replacement life before redeeming.
If health problems, keep and consider guaranteed additional purchase options.
Not a bad thing to keep it around for some extra burial money.  I.e. this policy to bury me.  This other one for mortgage etc.  Then others can dropout and no worries later.
same story for me my mon bought me a whole life insurance and in paying 68$ cad eavih month... for 150000$ im only 21 and the cash values is very low. I have to pay for 5 more years and i wont pay anymore 
Will it appreciate or depreciate? If deprication I'd cash it out. Keep in mind also i think life insurance policies are stupid as I'll be dead and 1500 is enough to cremate me. 
This requires doing the math on how much term would cost you versus how much you could gain by investing the difference.  
If you invest it well, in 15 years that $4200 will grow to exceed the value of the death benefit *and then continue growing* (even faster if you invest that $18 a month).  You already have term coverage and you're fairly young, so you don't need that "safe" death benefit.  
If you were 60 and had financial obligations and no insurance, it would be different.  Don't miss out on life-changing investment earnings because you wanted to keep a death benefit that that wouldn't be a drastic increase over your existing death benefits.
Whole life is one of the only remaining tax shelters for investment left. Meaning you can invest and get gauranteed rate of return 10 times better than a savings account plus divifends without ever having to pay taxes on the gains. 
You don't buy a whole life policy because of the death benefit. You buy it for retirement income  and the death benefit is just a bonus/excuse for the text shelter status.
That's my $00.02... 
You should keep that. That covers you with inflation for the next 5-10 years for final expenses. That could really mean a lot to your family someday. You’ll also never pay anywhere near that for anything now that you’re so much older. 
You should cash out your whole life policy, and replace it with term insurance. Also try and determine how much insurance you need for you and your family. 
Depends if its perm or term life insurance. Perm life insurance acts more like equity and beging paying you back if you live long enough. If you die, then sure you get the 25k. Keep in mind having to get new life insurance will come at a higher premium given your age. 
Consider 1035ing to a low cost investment-only VA or if you are relatively high income you could 1035 to Index Life Insurance and start making much larger premiums payments eg. $250+ to begin a LIRP. Your cash value gets you a nice head start on the accumulation value that will feel better than starting a LIRP from scratch. Some will say I’ve drunk the koolaid, but like any investment, faith + long time horizon + discipline should be successful. Read David McKnight “Look before you LiRP” and find a provider like him.
Get yourself a term life policy and THEN cash in the whole life.  And never buy whole life again.  Take the proceeds and put it in a 529 in an S&P index for your kid.  You’ll come out ahead. 
Doesn’t matter what the value. Whole life insurance is a trash product. Cash it out, buy a sizable term policy, and save the extra money. 
Life insurance agent here.
25k is about what you want to keep for whole life.  Here's why.  Whole life is ideal for final expense coverage; aka, helping take care of funeral costs.  The average funeral in the us is currently 15k and has been rising at a solid 4% per year for at least the last 20 years.  At that rate, within 20 years time it will be 30k.
Whole life is not an investment product!  Anyone that tells you that it is is lying to you.  It is not the product you want for income protection, or mortgage, or to pay for your kiddo's college if something happens to you.  Term is great for that, and at your age, so is accidental.  
Ideal total coverage for term and accidental is 5 years of income replacement, plus whatever is left on mortgage, plus a college fund for each of the kids.
I know insurance salesmen get a bad rap, but there are some of us who really do care.  I'm happy to answer any particular question you may have about it that I can, but be careful taking advice from internet strangers.  
If you need the cash you can take out a loan against your cash value at any time with your own repayment plan. Probably just let the value grow and do that if necessary
Take it and use it to stabilize your situation and then use some of that money to take out policies like she did
Does the military have some kind of retraining program so he can do something else that does not require a lot of physical movement? A desk job, basically? He's only 36... that's a long time to be not be able to work ever again.
You may find these links helpful:
*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/personalfinance) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Are you working, if so and you are filing MFJ he can do an IRA.
Couldn't he retrain into IT? Programming?
so I've got a 1 million policy with 2 young kids and a stay at home wife.
My mentality with the 1 million is my wife can pay off the house, and use the remaining 800k along with her going back to work to not be homeless/destitute.  
I'm not looking for her to be able to invest this and live off it the rest of her life.  We've also got retirement savings that she'll have access to when she retires and survivor benefits for our kids until they're 18 from SSA.
We pay 45/month for our 1 million policy.  As shes a stay at home mom we haven't gotten any insurance on her even though I know we should.  shes a big "I don't want to think about dying" kind of person so she ignores it instead of preparing for it.  
Don't forget your work only covers you while you work for them.  if you switch jobs or are laid off due to an accident you lose that coverage.  I have coverage at my office but I don't consider that as it'll end as soon as I stop working here.  its just bonus for my wife if I die.
Just talk to your husband.  if you're hit by a bus you've got some burial expenses along with other bills, student loans and what not, what does he need to 'get through'.  often people need quite a while to grieve and may be out of work for several months.  What would help him sleep better at night?  that's a better conversation than "whats our magic number".  Whats his magic number?
I think that since you are the main earner in the marriage that your $100K coverage is too little. If something were to happen to you the household income would drop to 1/3. I would start by revising your coverage. Normally, work group policies allow for additional insurance  to 2X or 3X salary for very low premiums.  
Personally, I would first start with having enough to pay the mortgage, also how much money would the surviving spouse would need a year to keep the household, then given the age of your kids, you might want to take that into consideration also. So to calculate how much coverage you need quickly and dirty I would do something like this.
* Then you might want additional money for college: $50K
> A $500k policy for him for 30 years is $815/year.
My family's situation is roughly similar to yours in terms of ages (we're a bit older), combined incomes, and commitments. We went with 20 year term life policies of $750k each. Mine costs $502 per year; my wife's is $450. They are with different companies, and we got them through that website (i.e., via an agent we found on that website).
I don't think $500k is too much.  If you were to die unexpectedly, your spouse may not be able to afford all of your current living expenses plus the cost of childcare on just his income. You'd want the life insurance proceeds to compensate for your lost income for many years, ideally until your children are financially self-sufficient adults.  I think a 20 year policy is all you need, but it should be for at least $500k.
The 30 year policy is probably so high because of your husband's age.  You will get much more affordable rates on a 15 or 20 year term policy.
If you're working, I'd recommend (and this is purely my opinion) the formula: 1.25 his salary x the number of years until your kids are out of the house and not dependent on you.   The 1.25 accounts for inflation and potential raises (depending on his field).  That gets that number in the $1.25-$1.5m area.    
This is, again, my opinion but I wanted to show you more the reasoning side of how I got to my own number so you could hopefully apply something from that to your own situation.  It sounds like you'd be fine on just your income if kids were out of the house and the house was paid off, so that's what I'd personally be looking to cover.
The general rule I've heard a lot is roughly 10x your income in a 20-25 year term policy. The idea is that would effectively replace your income if you passed. So no, I would say since you have small children $500k is not too much. A lot of financial planners would probably tell you to get more.
3. Enough for at least 5 years income replacement.
I'm the same age as you, have two kids, and I have a 1.2m policy.
Plus cost of living for the kids until 18
Plus cost of college for the kids at a reasonable estimate
At a 4% ("safe") withdrawal rate, you would need $1,375,000 to replace your husband's $55k in income. He would need $2,500,000 to replace your $100k income.
That's the high end - you wouldn't need any more than that.
The low end depends on your individual circumstances, so there isn't enough information here. You won't get anything meaningful from social security (small one-time payment, but not monthly payments) since neither one of you stays home with the kids. Your retirement savings is barely more than a year's salary (less than a year for your husband), so there isn't much help there.
Insurance can be expensive, and can look like a waste of money if you don't use it. But if you need it the value far outstrips the money you put in. That's how it works. It's a little worse financially for most people, and way way way better financially for the few people who need to use it.
There is no way to judge this objectively.  There's only limited experience, and industry rumours for the most part.
\- never ever a no-medical exam policy.  A big player in this industry once told me their claims denial percentages.  It 10X what I'd expect from a regular life insurance company.  
\- Wawanesa has the best customer service of anyone - hands down, not even close.  (\*)
(\*) I worked on a death claim that was < 1 year old from Wawanesa.  Any other company I would have expected a review.  Wawanesa paid in days.  I mentioned this, they responded that they'd already seen the deceased's full medical file recently, had done a full drill down when the client bought, they weren't going to find anything new, sometimes people just die, so get it paid.  Again, any other company I would have expected a 4 month review.
Claims payments in the life insurance industry, as much as I'm a proponent of the industry, are an unregulated mess.  99% of consumers don't notice anything, 1% of consumers are getting screwed, blued, and tattooed.  And it's worse with critical illness insurance.  But I digress/rant :).
What type of life insurance are we taking here?
3. I would recommend going with a broker who has access to multiple # of insurance companies, before you do anything make sure to ask who they represent, ie if you don't know any of the companies they rep then probably go with someone else 
4. when signing up for life insurance, make sure to ask about the claims process as well, this is very key and a lot of clients fail to ask this, all they wanna know is how much premiums I gotta pay? how large is the death benefit? etc. 
5. I'll give you an example of Equitable Life, they are very reputable and have the best numbers when it comes to a participating life policy; meaning it generates the best dividends out of all insurance companies in Canada, BUT they're a smaller company and smaller companies are much more conservative thus they'll require medical exam/checkup.. now if you look at Manulife, they don't necessarily require medical exam for anything that's under $1 million coverage, is this good? well it can get you approved quickly BUT if something happens without a good solid medical report they can deny your claim 
hope this helps brother, it is all very subjective as everyone needs insurance and no one wants to actually use their insurance once they have it
2) Type of insurance is based on how long you need it.  If you need it between 'now and til you're dead fer sure', that's permanent life insurance.  If you need it between 'now and a fixed endpoint like retirment or kids out of the house' then the cheapest solution is term insurance - life insurance that effectively (not technically) covers you for a defined period of time like 20 years.  Given your first 6 words or so, generally accepted practice is term insurance  - for 20 years or 30 years.  
I really liked her PolicyMe platform to help figure out what I needed.
Why do you need life insurance?
Alright, /u/lifeinsurancecanada - I'm going to be upfront. This is something I am EXTREMELY weak on understanding. So maybe this will be a little bit of fun for both of us. You get the chance to deal with someone that is probably as "clueless" as many consumers are, and I get to ask the questions that are probably pretty damn dumb just because I'm willing to admit I am pretty damn dumb about this kind of stuff.
The only catch being that I'm a kinda skeptical person, and I have some financial experience.
I mean, functionally, to me this very much sounds like a managed investment account - a very long term and very conservative one. I know you say otherwise (it's a reserve, not an investment), but how is it functionally any different except for being funds invested for a single purpose. 
Effectively, one is funding their own death benefit and the reason for the reduced premiums is just reduced insurance. Could someone later on in their life simply take a lesser policy (since they might have their own investments and therefore not feel they need the coverage as much), and say fuck it to the insurance policy?
The main benefit of whole life would be that act of funding a reserve account and reducing insurance coverage would be managed for you, for life, right? The main drawback would be losing control over funds put aside for yourself and I'm going to guess some pretty abysmal long-term returns on that reserve.
Overall this seems like a bad thing, right? It seems like the person has already paid for insurance, at high premiums while young, and then their "investment"/"reserve" is also then taken some part into profit? How much is usually taken? Is that a tough question to answer? 
>When you die, the lifeco pays the death benefit as (insurance + the reserve accumulated). Ideally the insurance portion is 0 and the reserve= death benefit. Again, this is conceptual and over an entire block not as an individual.
The basic concept here - if I'm following along is that whole life insurances means that you no longer NEED insurance anymore when you're older, right? Because you have been funding it all along on your own. Just checking in that I'm on the right page. 
At one point I thought it was also used to protect large assets.
My nitpick is he post seems a little too positive versus neutral. My humble opinion on whole and universal life is that it's a bad product for the large majority of people, and is pushed by insurance brokers  because of the high margins.   
The financial product is a mashup of term life and investing. Many times the numbers are opaque - how much of payments goes to insurance versus reserve?  What is the growth of capital put into reserve?  When the information is available, there are lots of fees and the investing is very conservative for a financial instrument with a multi decade span. 
Can you elaborate on the changes that are coming through from the CRA regarding whole/universal life? My insurance guy is trying to push me into a corporately owned policy now in order to take advantage before the changes occur.
Question - why should I pay the 200$ a month till I'm old instead of putting away 200 dollars a month into a gic or something of sorts. 
But all that still is a pile of statements that are disupted elsewhere (and here) by supposed experts.   I totally ignore "Enhanced Whole Life"  (PAR policies I presume) in the following because I am still trying to get the facts straight on the basics.   
**1)** Are all policies restricted to level-pay for whole lifetime, as you say?  Certainly others claim otherwise and you have not been able to justify your claim.  [MM quote](https://www.reddit.com/r/PersonalFinanceCanada/comments/507pq6/anyone_know_the_mechanics_of_whole_life_insurance/d7333qi) and [/u/Alsadius point 2a)](https://www.reddit.com/r/PersonalFinanceCanada/comments/507pq6/anyone_know_the_mechanics_of_whole_life_insurance/d71zicy)
I have also been in contact with every OP here asking them to give me factual confirmation of what exactly is in the contracts/sales claims.  A recent one replied that a) the 20yr ONLY flat payment schedule was guaranteed to be sufficient and b) it was not a PAR policy.  
And later in life when the cash for the larger mortality costs are needed, that pot of cash (CSV / reserve) gets drawn down.  From the corp's POV the reserves from pre-payments (ignore investment profits and cash from lapsed policies for simplicity) should close on $0 (plus the corp's profits)  by the time the cohort is all dead.
**3)** Since you do not attempt to distinguish between the CSV and what you call the corporation's reserve, I have been assuming they are essentially linked.  
The only way life insurance makes theoretical sense to me is if NOBODY gets their money back when they want to walk away.  The whole point of the exercise is to share mortality risks between groups of people.  That means $$ flow from those who die late to those who die early, with the corp taking a profit.  Giving people their money back if they did NOT die completely destroys that model. 
The only way to make sense of this is to presume what you are claiming is wrong.  Insurance will only make sense if, each year, the corp takes the yearly mortality cost from the premium paid, and only increases the CSV by the difference.  And so will REDUCES the CSV in later years when premiums no longer covers the full mortality cost.   The Face Value must be paid by the corp from the yearly mortality costs it has taken each year. 
**4)** Yes this is all happening behind the scenes and not physically distinguished until the CSV is accessed, but it is necessary to understand how the CSV is calculated, and what size it will be, in order to understand the product. 
You may also be charged a surrender fee when you do this. Especially if you do it early on in the policy.
>Some policies are priced so that there's some extra padding in the premiums. At the end of each year, the companies decide if there's any extra left over from your premium payment, and return some to you
This is actually very heavily regulated and I would say the company doesn't get to decide. But rather they perform a calculation that specifically looks at mortality (how much they paid in death claims) and investment experience (how well the money they invested did as compared to how well they expected it to do). Any profit must be passed on to policyholders.
If you're the one requiring the insurance, I recommend that you own the policy on your former's spouse's life.  Ownership means you pay, and you have control.  if you don't want to pay, still do this but see if you can bump up any financial agreement to include this costs.  That way, you control the policy.
If you're not going to do this, and leave it in the hands of your ex spouse, then you need to make the beneficiary irrevocable.  AND you need to require that they prove continued coverage every year.  I assure you I've seen multiple instances where life insurance was purchased just long enough to keep the lawyers happy, then cancelled immediately afterwards.  The other spouse then moves forward thinking they have insurance when they don't.
And lastly, if you're the one that's insured, I'd also suggest that you get an agreement upfront that upon conclusion of your obligations that you can take over the policy and/or that they won't block a beneficiary change.  You may want that insurance in 20 years for someone else, particularly if you've become uninsurable.  Without that agreement, either the other party lets the insurance lapse (which you don't want if you're uninsurable) or they keep the coverage in place and that's a bit weird.
Will read the links when I get home after work, but for now, I'm curious if they say what the New Wife thought that the Ex Wife was doing paying the insurance for years and years if the ex wasn't supposed to be the beneficiary of it? Unless it was just supposed to be a big joke "Hahaha look how we screwed you for years by getting you to pay for something that wouldn't help yourself out"?
I read the SCC decision yesterday. What a wild ride. It's a perfect example of what not to do with estate planning.  Don't cut corners when it comes to your or your spouse's estate because you don't want to incur the minimal cost of signing paperwork. Dead people can't sign documents. 
I'm surprised this SCC decision was so controversial. Clearly, Ms. Moore made some bad decisions that resulted in her almost getting scammed. But for the appellate courts to actually consider *upholding the scam on a technicality* is kind of insane.
I guess dead peasant life insurance now spreads to consumers now.
I'm curious how the ex-wife continued paying for it without knowing the beneficiary was changed. Assuming the payments are online, I imagine you have to go through an account you have access to to see the bill, and on that same account you could also see the terms of the life insurance policy. Unless it was setup with something like automatic billing and the money was just taken out of her account or she just never bothered to check the terms and see the beneficiary wasn't her for the whole 7 years?
Very interesting conclusion to that case... 
I'm a bit confused as to why they would make this arrangement. What is the benefit for the man for whom the life insurance is covering?
Are beneficiaries not notified when they are removed from a policy?
As someone who's currently studying family law for a political science class.   Makes sense! 
