My name is Chirag Jain, I am 18yrs young from "Indore" city based in India. I'm an Enthusiast Digital Marketer and i've worked for more then 4 companies as a Digital Marketer ( i.e: WWF, UN, Daly College, ASASS ). I would like to work from Remote or On-site . I am open to work for free or whatever salary is provided
Hi, I'm a graphic designer with 4 years' experience working with businesses and personal brands. Between liaising with clients, working on projects, and life commitments, I find myself not having as much time as I would like to reach out to new clients.


If you're interested or would like to learn more, do drop me a message. Thanks and I hope to hear from you soon.
[https://www.reddit.com/user/saad\_abbasi/comments/bjr0jw/digital\_marketing\_ventures/?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x](https://www.reddit.com/user/saad_abbasi/comments/bjr0jw/digital_marketing_ventures/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)
Hey, I’m Ryan and I am extremely proficient in digital advertising. I have the pleasure of being able to create and manage paid traffic for businesses as my full time job. It’s my number one goal to help your business reach its goals and give you the best ROI possible.

If you are looking to have someone look after or help you with your Facebook, Google, YouTube ads please shot me a message and we can further discuss things. I look forward to hearing from you, have a great day!
(Remote)
Hi! My name is Dustin and I'm a PPC Specialist with around 2 years of experience (mostly in Bing Ads since I work for Microsoft currently). I'm looking to branch out and get more experience on other platforms as well, so if anyone is looking for a PPCer in the Seattle area (I'm also open to remote work), I'd love to chat!
Looking for an **SEO/Adwords badass** with proven experience managing budgets of $250k + Bonus points if you have experience running YouTube ads!

&#x200B;

Location: U.S. or Canada (remote)

&#x200B;

Agency or freelancer
Not a blog or a podcast, but I love The Daily Carnage newsletter. I start my morning with it every day.

I like Unbounce's blog. Marketing Over Coffee is a solid podcast that helps me stay a little more up-to-date on tech.
KlientBoost.com blog and podcast
Mind your business podcast, adspresso, Jim Fortin Podcast (more mindset)
Found MarketingSherpa recently. A decent source for advanced marketers.
zest.is plugin for Google Chrome
Is there an app you guys use for blog updates or you just subscribe to them all old school?
So you got some music created as a great collection of content. Now you have to think of how you are going to distribute that content. A great way to do this is to talk to other artists and people who listen to that genre of music. Hanging with other artists in the community is huge. They already have followers and if you can establish yourself in that scene, you're golden.

The best way to go about that is to always go in with a soft intro when meeting other artists and to always start small. Maybe message a few local artists that are similar and see if they want to collaborate.

Also, have a vision for your brand and where you want to see things go. You never want to come off as a fan or a fake artist trying to piggy back off someones following.


You focused heavy on your content which is an expression of yourself.




=)

Hope that helps! Good luck on your music!
To help you, can you please clarify what is GMB and what kind of irrelevant searches you get?
Trying RankMath on a few sites instead of Yoast. Haven't decided the winner yet though.
You left off Search Console. You use that to see what pages are winning and what terms people are using to get to your site.
„Page titles“? Plural? I would advice to start by optimizing exactly one page for this keyword/search intent. Not multiple ones.

Stories have a good chance to be the future of how we consume content online. This goes far beyond SEO and should be on the radar of all online marketers (content, paid, CRO, etc.).

Sometimes a performance based bonus. And maybe equity at a startup.
A percentage of revenue is very uncommon for employees. Maybe in a small startup or as a freelancer/agency.

No.
Google keywords planner
You can use Semrush, Ahrefs or Search Console get your analysis finding keywords gaps to get new keyword ideas or related keywords from your competitor
Moz will help you to do that... you have explorer by using that you can find out that
Blatant self promotion: We (Searchmetrics) can do that by a) looking at current rankings (including search volume, CPC, etc.) or b) actually analyzing the content in your page. Both URL based of course.

Apart from SEMrush, all of the solutions listed above support only one of those approaches.
SEMrush has an On-Page SEO Checker for discussing pages. It's in the Projects section.
The best thing to use is your brain for that. Plan the content on your pages around ranking for a primary keyword and 2-3 LSI keywords. I typically don’t do more than that to keep the topic focused. Also make sure you have at least 1000 words of quality content (no filler), good tagging, schema markup, internal linking, sub 2 second page load time, etc
Only if you are getting paid for it.
It depends on your contract. Clients always request services that are outside the agency's scope of work and that they aren't paying for and that should never be the case because it'll never end.

I personally prefer that the agency create all the content since they will know what kind of visuals/copy will best fit the strategy while the client won't always know. The wrong content can be counterproductive and usually leads to the client getting pissed that they're not getting the results they want.
I offer it for my clients that are in real estate or BNBs. I find if they have the option to do everything in one place, they’ll go that route. The less links in the chain, the better (for the client).
I mean actual business pictures has immense impact on sales as it entails the element of social proof
I would say matters how good of photos you need and want for the strategy. If your really trying to be successful and want high quality photos and certain things captured in the photos than yes I would be taking my own.
Not so much may or may not be according to requirements
Chuck contract, chuck every industry practice out of window. Client chose the DMA with a belief that you will deliver value. You chose your client with a belief that you can deliver value.

Clients will be lethargic and dodgy when you want them to do some work. But remember, pictures are important in branding and making that first impression. It makes the targeted customer take a closer look. Good picture helps you gain split second leverage when the ads is live. When the campaign is successful you retain a customer. 

Clients may provide great pictures. If that’s not the case, it’s DMA’s duty to CONVINCE how important the picture is to run a successful campaign and how it can impact the Ad ROI. Pictures can make or break a campaign. Convey this in the discussion stage and ask the client to provide best pictures. 

Mostly clients would hate to go through the struggle of finding a good photographer and all the process. If they are up for the game you got what you need. 


Second way is, the DMA can hookup photographer and client. In return for reference and value, DMA can use the photographer on other projects.


Reverse image search on google is the first thing that comes to mind.
Images: Google Reverse Image Search, TinEye

Text: CopyScape
Hoes can do that too?
If you're using active campaign then you could track opens by creating an automation that adds a contact to another list when they've opened an email. This list could then be synced with Facebook for conversion tracking and you wouldn't need to manually upload it.
Just export the openers as a file then create a custom audience using email address in Facebook and manager.

Assuming you have permission to do that
By engagement, by paid, with best SEO,  social Linking, sharing and boostups


That said, don't think much just start. Take some relatively simple projects in the beginning and  go for bigger challenges  as you gain experience and confidence.


Think of yourself as an entrepreneur and do everything you can to make your client happy.

Make sure you have a portfolio of some work, whether paid/commissioned or not, and start a conversation with folks. You may have to pitch yourself a little bit, but you’re a marketer! Tell your story and have a hook, and you’ll do great.
Firstly you need to know what you want to specialise in then study it well. Next apply what you learnt by getting real clients offer to do it for free, get results for your client repeat and build yout portfolio until the market thinks you are worth something

Or 

Build your own blog or ecommerce store to gain experience and show what you capable of 

Its alot of hard work gd luck

  
You have two ways to represent yourself to a client.


2) Your proposal

  



&#x200B;

Also, if you can create a sample that's like what they are looking for (for example, if they need email marketing help for ecommerce sales, write an ecommerce sales letter) that provides value. Don't go crazy, just enough to show your skills.  


Doing that every proposal will sharpen your own digital marketing skills.  


You can try feedly by just adding the blogs or websites you want to follow and it will collate all the content in a feed for you.
I use Google Alerts, and IFTTT recipes for Twitter and Reddit keyword search which curates into daily email digests.
go for feedly
Important news always pops up in either my Facebook or Twitter feed. Especially on Twitter I make sure to have a well curated list of accounts I follow.



then 1>what is search engine?

2>which type of project you handle before?


I hope it will help you,Best luck to your interview.

If you aren't signing anything that states otherwise in contracts, do what you want! Good luck (:
Legally, if you din´t have to sign any "no competition clause" or something like that, then you are all set. Morally I wouldn´t do it, but it´s your call.
That's going to be it in a nutshell. There will be good info in the $500/$3k/$25k+ course you'd eventually be convinced in to taking but that info is free on the internet. Just go find it yourself.
No it’s 100% BS, avoid it

&#x200B;

For this example we're using 3 ad sets within 1 campaign:

1. Create a campaign for whatever your target may be (leads, traffic, engagements). Within that campaign, create 3 different ads sets, you will use these to test.
2. Create 3 different versions of an ad creative.
3. Create 3 different versions of ad copy.
4. Start all buy using the same ad creatives across all 3 ad sets, but using the 3 different versions of ad copy you have previously.
5. Let this run for a week to see if you have ample data. You will be able to see which creative is performing best.
6. Take the best performing ad copy, use it on all 3 ad sets, and change the creatives to the 3 different ones you previously created.

&#x200B;

I would do data science or analytics at the very least. You can get into digital marketing but data science and analytics are very sought after positions, and future machine learning (5-10 years) will replace a lot of the data entry type jobs like digital media buyers, and other entry level digital marketing jobs. Stay ahead of the trends, my friend.

&#x200B;



Short courses could be another option.

If you can demonstrate knowledge, you'll be fine but it does take a lot of effort
Getting a degree in graphic design or videography may be more beneficial.
Any reason you couldn’t use a service like LastPass to share passwords without actually knowing the password? And then, if things go astray he would just remove your access
 


That's a great question, hahaha. Also if anyone has any stock picks (something like amazon in 1999) let me know!
Business Intelligence ( Look up SQL, R, Tableau), Product Marketing, Salesforce...
Account Based Marketing / ABM

Also, within influencer marketing there is live streaming which people are still figuring out. Influencer marketing as a whole is still relatively young- along with podcast advertising. Seeing how this progressing (I personally think there will be a transition to a CPA model). 

Facebook messenger bot marketing
Podcasts.
Programmatic
Email marketing/Inbox marketing
IMO, the next biggest Digital Trend of 2019 are:

Data Analysis | Machine Learning | Artificial Intelligence

Real Time Marketing Management (RTMM). Very few people know what it is and very few companies can afford it. The ones investing in this will be the ones on top in a few years.
sendgrid
Mandrill, mailgun
Yes, dead easy using the free Google Analytics connector.

Connect the data source, then create a table of pages + hits.


Lastly, in the top menu to the right is a scheduling icon (it’s quite new, introduced Mar or April). Choose the day + people to receive it by email and you’re all set.

What kind of positions are you looking for? If you've had one internship you should probably be looming for entry level positions (Just in case you're not). 

Also you might benefit from speaking with a recruiter who can give you tips on enhancing your resume and making sure it's perfect for your market and the area you live in. Everywhere has different expectations for a resume.
I see gambling offers all over email affiliate networks, there are tons of companies with databases that are good for that kind of thing and email/sms is a good way to reach them since there's fewer restrictions (geo dependent)




 
Don’t cancel.

This is a strange request. Hard to build a plan w/o data. You need to see what works and what doesn’t before you pit a plan together. You need goals and budgets to put specifics together. 



The questions I would ask yourself - 

1. Is this company legit? I've seen lots of companies scam info and ideas this way, particularly those from China.  

2. What level is this position? Understand that, and understand what you are going to be contributing at the level and tailor your answers that way. 

* Director - Results and Employee Management
* Manager - Execution 
* Assistant/Associate/Coordinator - Understanding of emerging platforms. 



If I didn’t really want the job I’d tell them to get bent over the phone, or go for bonus points by presenting my marketing funnel pitch with offensive memes as background images.
A bit more context:



My confidence is currently at rock bottom and I don’t think I’m capable of doing a good job anywhere. This is why I’m considering cancelling. As pathetic as it might sound, I’m frightened of failing again.
2. Get him to enroll in the Google Marketing Course so that he can learn the "ins and out" of Google. If he will be focusing on Digital Marketing, this is essential to learn one way or another.
3. Do the same for Facebook Blueprint. It is a MUST to learn Facebook's Ads Manager, and to be good at it. There's tons of valuable knowledge he'll gain from these classes starting out.
4. Let him shadow some of your Marketing Agents. Some of the best skills can't be learned by books and classes. He'll be able to see the interaction between client and agency, which is vital. Pitching ideas, speaking "their language", giving them insight on how their campaign(s) are doing, etc.
5. Let him put together some "test" campaigns to show ideas he may have, and how closely they are related to a current campaign y'all are running. He'll be able to see the differences between a season digital marketing vet, and a newb. It's nice to see what you could've done different and why.

Just a few ideas that I would've liked as a young grom in the marketing world.
the first rule of digital marketing is you don't talk about digital marketing
I'd like to propose a set of Rules for Digital Marketing (Agency Edition)

1) The creed of a planner: RFP, Powerpoint, billing

2) See what worked then adjust the goalposts

3) Readers are sheep and any minor change to the website will result with them wandering off the page (to complain on twitter)

4) Without your clients, you are nothing (see 6)


6) Client happiness is the only metric which counts

7) The plan is only as good as the product (and screenshot quality of the RFP's)

8) We aren't crabs in a barrel (excluding the account team), we're dolphins in a pub 

9) The rules change frequently and often, but the game remains the same... is a fancy way of saying that you'll be working in Excel most of the day

Why is Clickfunnels garbage? (Newbie here)
Number 6. So hard to convince clients of that.
**These 10 rules will help you build a base that will be useful to your customers, to your brand.**

**1. Listen:** Succeeding in social networks and content marketing requires listening more and speaking less. Therefore, read the online content of your target audience and participate in discussions to learn what is important to your followers. Only then you can create content and generate conversations that provide them with something valuable. 

**2. Focus your attention:** It is better to specialize in two or three networks to be inefficient in all. With a content marketing strategy to build a brand you have more opportunities to succeed than with one that pretends to be everything for everyone. 

**3. Produce less but quality contents:** It is better to have a few thousand online connections that read, share and discuss your content with their own audiences, than 1,00,000 connections that disappear after connecting with you for the first time. 


**5. Create unique content:** The audiovisual experience and the generation of exemplary texts are the basis for mastering online spaces. If you publish great and quality content and you work to build an audience of first rate followers - exemplary people who follow you and care about you - they will share it with their circles on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, their own blogs and more. . Sharing and discussing your content opens new access points for search engines such as Google to locate it using keywords. 

**6. Be influential:** Take time to find out who (in your market) are the most popular, followed and heard online. Connect with these people and work to build relationships with them. If you step on their radar as an authority or as a relevant source of useful information, they may share your content with their own followers, which could put you and your business at the forefront of a huge new audience. 

**7. Add value:** If you spend all your time on social networks directly promoting your products and services, people will stop listening to you. These tools are based on the ability to maintain an interesting conversation. Add value to your talk by creating fabulous content and developing relationships with those who exert influence online. Over time, these people will become catalysts of word-of-mouth marketing.

**8. Make them recognize you:** You would not ignore someone who approached you in person, so do not do it online. Building relationships is one of the most important elements when it comes to the success of marketing in social networks, so always respond to every user that approaches you. If you are cordial and participative in the dialogue with your client, he will recognize and divulge your brand through his own channels. 

**9. Become accessible:** Do not publish your content and then disappear. Stay available for your audience. That means you need to post content and participate in conversations consistently. Online followers can be fickle and will not hesitate to replace you if you disappear for weeks or months. Precisely, social media serves to satisfy the need for communication and to ensure the presence of the brand at all times. Your voice must be available at every moment that is required. 

**10. Share content from others:** You can not expect others to share your content and talk about you if you do not do the same for them. A part of the time you spend on social networks should be used to share and talk about what others publish. This diversifies your information offer and satisfies the need for disclosure of your audience, guaranteeing your loyalty.

&#x200B;

Thanks.
use Google analytics
You can use UTM tags to track in Analytics.


Aside from engagement, you should have Google Analytics set up to determine the acquisition numbers from Instagram. You'll be able to get the number of link clicks from your IG bio. Then you can set up goals (i.e. set up an account, bought a product) to get exact conversion rate numbers.  


I think you need to use a mix of original content and content from others. Original content makes your brand more transparent and personable. This is also where making original IG stories becomes super useful as well. So if you reach a certain number of followers (forgot how many), you can include links to your products in the stories. You can also turn your IG page into e-commerce functionality as well.   


Get results for people and build a portfolio, and then you should have clients lining up to work with you. The issue you face is everyone and their mother thinks they can launch a PPC/Facebook ads service on the site after doing a bull shit training, and then faking it till they make it. 

&#x200B;

I have 15 clients and they get offers from people all the time who do Facebook Ads/PPC and 99.9% of them are all full of shit, so my advice is since you have some experience already it sounds like, build a portfolio or way to convey that level of practionership to prospects.
Your experience is your connection. Local businesses should be easy to approach, and freelancer sites like Fiverr and UpWork will build up your 





Cheers!
Be honest about what you can offer. Most clients skeptical of people who promise instant or phenomenal results - just be candid.

Hey mate just a small point: you're not dropping off business cards, you're meeting potential decision makers and finding out how you can help them solve problems. The card won't do the talking, so don't rely on it to have any effect once you've left. Make sure you connect with someone, over something, and let them know you'll be back in touch again. I'll let someone else more qualified answer your other questions, but as an introvert I recognised/assumed/projected that there might be some propensity towards "drop and run" with those cards! People buy people, so connect as best you can. Good luck.
Regarding what you should do if the manager isn't there:


"In God we trust, everybody else bring data"

That said, make great presentations. 



Then present the projects and the challenges. Some people might be bullish while others are bearish, you need the ones which are compatible with your tactics, budget, industry etc.

Marketing is connecting the service/product with the chosen audience. That should include you, meaning you need to be the connector with the business you like and/or are compatible with. There will be less friction. 

Hope it helps and best of luck to you.
Stagger a reach out on multiple channels....LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook...the more ways that you're 'connected' with them, the more often you/your brand will pop up and remind them of your existence. Obviously dont bombard them and creep them out!
 It’d help to get experience doing marketing on small projects with people you already know or people they know. A lot of people have at least 1 entrepreneurial type in their circle.


Start a blog, get some traffic going.  Doesn't necessarily have to be SEO traffic as that can take awhile, just go to where people are hanging out and link to your posts.  Get some traffic and some quick wins.

Present that information effectively, the lessons learned and you'll probably get a job soon.
internship is the best way to go and learn how everything works in the side as well. within a year you will be a pro, assuming that you learnt from correct knowledge and agency


If your pages aren't loading in under 3 seconds, you can try switching to one of the default WordPress themes. E.g. TwentyNineteen. Test your speed again here. 

If it's still slow after that, then try disabling your plugins and enabling one by one while running speed tests. 

If all of that fails, it could be your web server host. 

Hope that helps.


1. Find websites that are relevant to your client that are high quality and authoritative. For example, if your client is selling CBD oil, try and CBD/Cannabis related websites.
2. Find the emails of these websites.
3. Create exceptional content for your client's website, for example, 'The Ultimate CBD Oil Guide'. 
4. Reach out to the websites you found and encourage them to link to your 'resource'. If they say no, offer to create a guest post for their website that would be suitable for their audience and include your clients link in the post.
5. Make sure any link built using guest posts are 'do follow'.
6. Be prepared for most sites to reject your offers or ask for a publication fee.  


In addition to the above, I'd recommend creating relevant directory listings for your client and a few blog comments to diversify your links.  


To be honest, I'm unsure if you know enough to be providing SEO a service and are currently undercharging the client for SEO. I'd recommend looking for a company to help you out on this.  



Backlink from high-authority sites will give you that backlink diversity for SEO and will give you a nice link juice.

If you don't know where to start, check out **RankdSEO backlink database**. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of high-authority websites.

There are more than 270 guides at the moment. And a list of 1400+ websites that accept guest posts.

Outside of that, almost free way is to build PBN for yourself. But this is difficult and time consuming to setup.



Good question. Off-page SEO is tricky and complicated, and I don't understand a lot of that stuff myself.

  
What I can tell you is that if you're doing any content stuff then a good way to get SEO backlinks is to pitch your content to bloggers, journalists and freelance writers. The object is to pitch them your content so they write about you and link back to your website.

&#x200B;

Try researching a list of 100 or so press leads and pitching them with a personalized email sequence. Lead with telling them how you found their work and how much you enjoyed it. Then suggest a mutually beneficial collaboration which results in a backlink to your website.

&#x200B;

Highlight how they would benefit from the exchange, and use the words "you/your" at least 5 times for every time you say "me/I". Make it about ***them***.

&#x200B;

Think of it like a mad lib. It'll look something like this.

&#x200B;

SBJ: Hi {{first name}}, I  found your article on {{publication}} and want to collaborate!

&#x200B;

Body: Hi {{first name}},

&#x200B;

I found your article {{article title}} on {{publication}} and I love your coverage of {{topic/beat/coverage area}}.

&#x200B;

I was wondering, have you ever noticed how {{this trend is happening}}? I wrote about this on my blog, and it may be a good resource for you when you do your next article on {{topic}}! Here, check it out at {{link to your blog}}.

&#x200B;

Would you be interested in using it as a reference? Let's set up a time in the next week and we'll talk about it!

&#x200B;

Cheers,

&#x200B;

Your name

{{Your blog/company logo goes here}}

&#x200B;

Ooo. Video content works great.

&#x200B;

My suggestion is that you repurpose and incorporate his video content for every stage of your funnel. 

&#x200B;

For example, the Facebook ads use videos explaining what your brother's service is. 

&#x200B;

Ads lead to a landing page which have examples of e-invites or a slideshow different e-invite videos spliced together. 

&#x200B;

Lead magnet is a free trial or discounted subscription in return for an email sign-up. 

&#x200B;

Weekly newsletters with video content are sent to the emails to nurture the leads the ads/landing page have brought you, with CTA leading to the website where you buy the thing.

&#x200B;


  
Really love this write-up, including the metaphor! Top one👌🏼
Blasphemy! Heretics!
Awesome piece. 


&#x200B;


&#x200B;

There are hundreds of thousands if not millions of websites all trying to be perfect google angels, when in reality, it is the demons reaping the benefits, faster & quicker.

&#x200B;

I am sure many want to follow the church of Google by its written word, but we all know the real secret for SEO is what is in the dark corners & shadows.   The things the church does not want you to really know.  😉
I like the way you explain everything.keep going

Shopify+
Magento
SF Commerce Cloud

All just some places to start poking around.


Anecdotally perhaps as people want to *feel* like they are researching more/ trusting a brand more when visiting a website instead of just tapping and entering an email direct on Facebook.  


Also for B2B the quality of emails captured was lower as often if autofilled it was personal emails.

&#x200B;



In terms of examples, literally the next one you see from a marketing agency/agency owner/ business guru, actually stop and process their copy and video and hook of their offer, fill out the details and see what happens post-click in terms of their marketing to you.  




You will learn a lot by trail and errors.

Good luck
You may want to consider your audience as a whole.  Granted, Facebook has some of the best reach, it does not perform well in all markets.  Facebook tends to do much much better on a b2c then b2b as a side note. Business consumers tend to research and compare a lot more; With that said certain b2b services do very well.  I would investigate the audiences tab and search specific interests of your b2b potential prospects and make sure there is enough interest on the platform for it.  

&#x200B;

If you are having trouble converting leads, another route is foregoing direct page ads, building a community around the interests, creating a page likes campaign, then inviting those likes to join your community.  Then run promotions within the group.  You simply just need to build the community following first.  With the new changes to Facebook recently, this is probably one of the best routes to go at the moment.

&#x200B;

Or you can select a platform specifically for b2b like linkedin.  hope this helps you with your future marketing company.  

&#x200B;


But cold emailing is particularly difficult.
PPC will be your fastest way, SEO can work if you can find less competitive, longer tail search terms to go after.   Figure out what people are likely searching in google and then find terms that you can rank for that aren’t crazy competitive.



Each campaign has different goals (pipeline build, conversions, yadda...). It could be growth in a particular market. Success in that case wouldn’t be CPM at all. 

Walk away. Or challenge them on their metrics.
I’ve just started diving into the Zapier integration platform for various purposes. I’ve seen multiple SMS options that will integrate with Facebook Lead Ads on their paid plans. Could be a good place to start looking.
You can do this multiple ways, but the easiest would be in Zapier to integrate your Facebook Lead account, use a new submission as the trigger, and then make the action send a SMS to the define phone number.

&#x200B;

You can also do this using Hubspot or Active Campaign if you potentially use them as your CRM.
Target the venues or locations where they hold sports events if you can't target them directly.
Are you using a CRM or any type of marketing automation software?
Ad exchange? DSP? Arbitrage? Syndication?


&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
It is broad match
Google text ad spend decreasing but dynamic search ads and responsive search ads increasing. 

More conversational marketing
Really interesting insights. Thanks for sharing OP. It has got me excited to be honest.
Thanks for the sharing.....

As someone working in the industry for (maybe too) many years this year's trend seems to be going back to basics.

As everyone is competing for the best ad palcement, if you don't get it you have to start making the most out of what you get so making campaigns things that are actually good and engaging while making the most out of what you have will be the "trend".

&#x200B;

That an personalisation through behavioural tareting using predictive analytics to create these campaigns in the first place..haha
 

*- DuckDuckGo outpacing other search engines in terms of growth, but still relatively small* 

&#x200B;



Digital marketing definitely works. 

I’d assume branding your store would be your best interest. 

You want your store and what you offer to stand out. 


I’d make sure your store is easily found on Google when searching businesses and don’t bother with Yelp. 

Yelp is a waste of money and doesn’t have your best interest in mind. 

Focus on your unique selling point and utilize this for advertising. 

Focus on branding your store, getting your name out.



—
Mike

PS: I’ll speak plainly here... Who gives a fxck if there’s a liquor store on every corner. Don’t play or fall in to the competition game. What matters most is your personal brand, your unique offer, and how you communicate that to the market. Ever wonder why some liquor stores do better then others? I can bet they’re doing some form of marketing also.
Being a liquor store I imagine tracking your conversions and ROI is going to be slightly different. 

You could run a Facebook ad campaign with a special discount offer, say 5% off any purchase if they quote a special code / word at the checkout. 

Now you’ll know which campaigns are performing best based on which codes are quoted.
Content marketing can be tied in to brand marketing. (Mainly for blogging or writing articles)

Brand copywriting and direct response would be the way to go. 

—
Mike
There are several ways you can track brick and mortar. Since this is a liquor store, promoting the consumption of alcohol on Social Media is treading in some tricky waters.

&#x200B;

I would use a system like Clover (or similar) to create a loyalty base. They have built in marketing options (like email and SMS) to draw back your customers in and maintain a loyalty (obviously without turning them into alcoholics haha).

&#x200B;

Also, Google MyBusiness will be your best friend here. If you give your current/new customers an incentive to leave reviews on your Google MyBusiness Listing, and you keep it up to date, you will see an increase in traffic. Keeping your website up to date and posting about new events or waiting lists on high end spirits/wines would be effective, which you could also incorporate into your Google MyBusiness listing. 

&#x200B;

Depending on your location, I would register with one of the delivery apps as well as google local business listing. That’s the 2 I would think that people commonly see on a daily basis.
Google ads will work the best for you, BUT it needs to be setup professionally.

And I mean professionally.


No.
No. But I do feel it sometimes helps. For some candidates that I see, they include their portfolio which includes projects that they have done in the past. Having a strong online presence is kind of your portfolio. Shows your creativity and copywriting skills is your post are written well.
Genuine question, why do you want to work in the space if you don’t participate in it? 

Is it an issue that you don't have an accounts on these platforms? No. 

But only if you have in-depth knowledge about how to create and produced successful campaigns through the said platforms. If you don't have accounts with these platforms, you probably don't have in-depth knowledge on how things like the Ads Manager work for creating campaigns. And that would be the issue here.
No. Even if you did you should keep in private.
No but it helps
No, but having a good social media presence helps you to showcase your abilities to the employer.
I’m head of digital advertising department and recently needed to hire two new team members. I cant say that their social media presence was critical, but it was still important. 


Also, for me one of the most important thing is how new member will fit in my team. And having a snoop on social media can help you estimate if persons characteristics will fit your group dynamic.
I think its important to have a social media presence. You are into digital marketing, right? Shouldn't you be good in sharing seeing you are in a field where sharing is obviously a major part of the deal?
Since there are already 13 different Facebook Pages, you probably want to create 13 Instagram accounts as well because they are owned by Facebook and that may simplify posts/ads for each location and personalize to their target market in that region. 

If you are going to be sole contributor to Instagram, then save yourself and stick to one account. 🙂

Recommend creating a "brand voice" document and some guidelines so it's more streamlined. Have a content calendar that everyone follows and have some consistency (holidays or company messages). 

I would question whether you really need Instagram; rule of marketing is to be where your customers are. What will you get out of investing time and resources on Instagram? 

If you believe Instagram is a good channel, I would recommend to just keep 1 account as a general account if you are planning to have the same content across the different locations anyway. You can dedicate one content pillar to focus around localized content and promotions.

I think in terms of targeting and ROI, digital marketing is unbeatable. 

It can be somewhat difficult (and sometimes impossible) to track an ROI from traditional - which is why a lot of companies have moved away from it. I personally prefer performance marketing. However, I think traditional still does have a place for global brands.
What a vague question. How do you define grow? Paid? Organic? Engagement? Followers? Why a timeline like that?

1. Relevant #tags - People always tend to search for #tags in Instagram. Check other posts with the same niche and find trending #tags.

* “Caption this image”
* “Share a time when…”
* “Tell us how this image makes you feel”

3. Time Matters - Always know when to post , if you are confused, check the insights and find post   

4. Work with influences - Find influences in your niche and let them spread your content 

5.  Be active in Instagram stories - Daily!

&#x200B;

Good luck!
consistency is key of digital marketing 

1 consistency

2 follow your related niches

3 relevance hashtags #

4 Instagram stories 

5 your niche related post commenting
You can use tracking numbers for calls. What kind of store is this? What are you counting as “leads”?


I get the: "How would you improve this or that aspect of our Digital Marketing efforts?" In every interview I have. I recommend you to thoroughly go over every single aspect of their DM and think of at least 1 or 2 things that could make a real difference (in terms of profits but also in terms of ). Hope it helps and good luck!
Due to the fact that the position you're applying " is quite creative," I would recommend preparing something which can show your vision and how you can contribute to the company. As far as I understood your job is more about storytelling and building the campaign for the company which will help them not only to build a bright presence on social media but will make them unique. So don't be afraid to be who you are. 



So, if you want to stand out or to show you're really interested in the position: maybe prepare something to show how it can work if you will do it. It can be one post, or brief structure and prepositions what should be changed or improved. Just show this creative vision that you have. And don't be afraid of it! Good luck! ;)
The whole challenge of Digital Marketing is to make people talk of your brand.  Yeah online presence and reach are technical terms.  But the real goal is to make people talk about your brand in person.  
How you integrate traditional marketing with digital marketing really gives you an edge in an interview! 

Worked for me!
AFAIK FB purposely kneecaps organic reach unless you pay to promote your posts
I doubt you're even reaching 20k of 100k



I’ve been working on a campaign for a specialist brand agency, again not expected to convert from search but looking to be part of more potential client considerations. Hope that helps.
Agree with above. You have to figure out what the client goal/expectation is of their site. Then exceed those expectations. 

1. Make an online store

2. Make the store look professional, relevant to what you’re selling, and not trash(optimize it the best for organic seo. You can watch YouTube videos about that.)

3. Use Fivver if you need to make a logo or a banner


5. Write blog articles about your niche


7. Wait. It takes time to see results

8. Keep learning about strategies


Btw, £100k budget sounds so dope to spend across multiple platforms. I hope i reach that level soon. 

Mind how long have you been in DM?
Create a new landing page and run ads there. 
MailChimp if you don't know development, html/CSS grid if you want to create something that will stand the test of time (backlink).
Also, you need to be aware that Facebook will increase the cost after a period of time whereas Google ads will reduce it. 

Hope it helps
The UI/UX of a website is vital for submitting a lead form. It needs to be as easy as possible, with the least amount of work for the potential new client. I use HotJar to track our visitors behavior on the site, and this helps us with tinkering certain things to make the person's "wants/needs" easily available. If people are having to click 7 times to submit an application or what not, you will 100% turn potential clients away. Little tweaks like this could do wonders for your lead gen.
Looks like a lot of comments here already gave you some great ideas. But let's give you 3 from my point of view.

1. Creating a simple landing page is way more effective than having a shitty one. Especially if customers journey is a mess. 
2. Webinars are not only great for new leads but also for adding a bonus for already existing customers, which can lead to more leads if done with point 3.
3. Email marketing: Create a coupon for referrals - with already existing leads. (example: refer your friend - get $50 Amazon coupon)

Good luck!
7 clicks!?



Not worth the headaches.

Either that or you need to revisit the discussion based on the scope of the work, what you’ve uncovered, and what needs to be done to make it work for them. 

And this is where you are crystal clear moving forward along with upwelling them on any additional services you’d need to implement.


From the sound of it, they’re in control because you’re allowing the client to communicate anyway they want towards you...

And they clearly don’t understand their own issues or what makes sense in order to achieve results they want.


If they aren’t working on generating organic traffic or just thinking you have some magical solution, you’re spinning wheels.





I’d walk away and say thank you for the opportunity, but we are not the right fit. 

—
Mike
How many of those original leads converted? 

For the short term, retarget the ads and copy to start getting leads in again.

You should always A/B test to see which ads run best and which will be the control. 


Could be the copy...

Could be the offer... 


—
Mike
If you implement Google Tag Manager on your site, you can implement a rule to track the "apply now" button clicks.   You can then implement the conversion pixel of the DSP/Adwords (wherever you are getting the traffic) to fire when that button is clicked as a result of your media.
Often times there are 3rd party tracking pixels that you can work with the companies to access information through. You'd need to do a data sharing agreement with everyone involved, but on certain industries, this is pretty standard. I've done a bunch of these, if you PM me, I can try to help.
Did they sign a marketing release for email/text? If not, that's a huge no-no. If you maintain a marketing list of patients who have opted in and have the proper documentation, then you can request reviews all you want. You just can't enter them for them, obviously. 

Best case is to have something to hand out as they leave. Have instructions on how to post reviews and such.
For HIPAA, you need to ensure reviews are anonymous to protect the patients’ privacy.
Why don’t you get supermetrics?
Yes, you can use Data Studio to generate reports customized to your needs regarding the performance of the paid channels. If you don't want to manually update the DS sources on a daily basis, you can use Supermetrics connectors, I believe that they have it all. But if you don't have or want to invest any additional budget to get Supermetrics, you can manually update a Google Sheets file on a daily basis with the needed data across your paid channels.

&#x200B;

I wouldn't rely on Analytics only especially if your goal is to check the performance in terms of leads & cost per lead - usually there is a pretty huge discrepancy between Analytics data and the paid platforms. Use Analytics to check sessions, new users and bounce rate (you have a direct connector in DS) and aggregate the conversion-oriented results directly form the paid channels (manually in Google Sheets or with Supermetrics).




Hmm. If it’s not your core business, don’t do it, refer them a trainer. But if you want to do it... you could check out some other FB courses or Blueprint and put together your own course materials. 

Then you’ll know how long it will take. And you might have another service you can sell afterwards :-)


Edit: word
A class I took recently covered this. They mentioned video taping some of your lessons or just saving material so you can use it in the suture. They also said that even if it’s less work, you should be charging them significantly more. Because you’re passing on your years of experience. Which probably includes expensive mistakes. Years of stress and trial and error. Jobs that paid little. Classes or other learning materials. Etc. and they are expecting to just get all of that.
It depends on a publisher and type of ads.

&#x200B;

This is what you want:

* CPM - high awereness
* CPA - conversion

&#x200B;


* CPA - retargeting / brand keywords on search

&#x200B;

This is what you should look after:

* CPM - use independent adservering to check viewability rate, placement of your ads and format structure. What you would want is high viewability rates, higher share of premium banner formats (300x600, 970x250) and good websites
* CPC - monitor onsite traffic, use analytics and set events, check time on site and pages per session. Also use hotjar to monitor website and analytics events to monitor website for bot traffic (time on site and pps can be gamed). Also check conversion rates.
Depends on the goal of the campaign and how easily you can track the sale or acquistion. If you are advertising laundry detergent - maybe the user clicks the link and buys online or something, but maybe they just happen to try that laundry detergent the next time they are at the store.

Think of he ads for butter and other grocery items you might see during a youtube video. Nobody is clicking that video to go buy butter right then and there.

If simple brand // product awareness is what matters CPM is a good measurement.

There are certain conventions and best practices. If the goal is reach or branding with engaging visual, video, or audio than CPM is preferred. CPC is ideal for media types that need clicks for validation (like text ads). CPA is generally the realm of affiliate marketing or emerging (not fully trusted) media. 

If you’re working at a large agency or on a large camping it’s common to see all three models on one plan.



I wouldn't post offers. Stories could be used to create your own mini stories about best places to go and when, top festivals/events from around the world coming up this spring, that sort of thing. You could try resharing photos from other travelers for content. Be sure to use appropriate hashtags.
Depends on the audience. My CPCs and CPAs are lower on Instagram, and the CPM's are way lower.
Google (free) and Squared Online. Hubspot is also well recognized.

Google your way through. There are many blogs that will help you out. 

Good luck man. Cheers!
Outside of the main Google and HubSpot certs, the only other one I’d recommend is the Bing Ads Accredited Professional and Facebook Blueprint.

If you’re willing to spend a little money, a Microsoft certification in advanced Excel is well worth it.
Look into:

* EasyWebinar
* EverWebinar
* Stealth Seminar

I'm sure at least one of those has all your requirements.
ON24 does some of these, not sure about your full requirements here, as SMS  live chat box seems a little niche


I'd run ads to establish name recognition in the market. Then others that specifically say something like "we've sold XXX houses in your area. Yours can be next!"

Then do retargeting of people who click the link to sell their house.
Try the exclude options of the Facebook ads. It will help you to exclude the people who are the real estate brokers or builders.
Use Postal Code/Zip Code targeting to affluent areas or areas of gentrification. Amend the creative accordingly to be specific to that area: "Do you know houses in your area are being sold for £xxx,xxx on average in 2018? Find out how much yours is worth with a free evaluation. Click here to enquire"
Moz/semrush will give you an idea of as copy and keyword they are bidding on and a few estimates.  Assuming they are big.  Maybe start there if they definitely won't give you viewing access.
I can tell you as someone who hires PPC people that when I ask those sorts of questions, I'm not necessarily looking for an answer to the question. Instead, I'm looking to understand how the person goes about performing the research to answer the question. 

Basically, what  I'm looking for when I ask those questions is 'does this person know enough to figure out how to answer the question correctly'. Obviously bonus points if you can actually answer the question effectively too.
You can be added as a viewer on their account without them giving you the user/password

They can do this by simply going to Google Ads > Keywords > Download.

If you want to review their adverts, ad extensions or any other assets without Google Ads access, they can do the exact same thing.

Just remember, you, a person who knows what he's doing, are just like 5% of the total people who clicks ads.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Sounds like a juvenile objection. Do you have data to show adding main site navigation to the landing page improves campaign ROI? If no, you have no argument. In some cases you could be correct in your assumption, but right now you are just using a personal anecdote and assuming that based on that you know how to properly spend the clients money while people who have more experience than you are telling you to do it the way the data shows.
What platform are you advertising on? Can you share the ads/lp?
Also can you share some examples of those bot accounts?
Spotify has 300 million playlist. Your playlist has to be lit to stand out.


Use videos with songs and use stories creatively. Be active and engage. If done right, people will check yorlur playlist out sooner than later.

Good luck
Thanks I’ll try that!
How exactly do you monetize a Spotify playlist?


Step 3 - Generate relevant content if possible. News / opinions and memes will help grow your audience

Good luck!
Word stream.com
You will learn from your own experience. And your question is incomplete no one can tell you about your ads budget. Beacuse you have not provided the enough details of your Facebook ads.
cool
What are you trying to accomplish? Selling multiple physical products? Selling an info product? Software? Maybe you’re want to sell advertising on your site within your content? Maybe you’re an affiliate marketer (like me)...


For example, if you’re promoting an affiliate product, you want high-quality content that dives deep about the product that you’re promoting.

However, if you’re trying to sell ad space on your site, you’re probably more likely going to focus on a high-volume of new content.

Content marketing is a fairly broad term and strategies vary based on the end goal.

The one consistent piece of advice that you’ll probably get is “create unique high-quality content.” I’d argue that there are some scenarios where that’s not even necessary but that’s a different topic for a different comment or thread. :)
Agreed you don’t always need to create your own content. 

Content curation is a viable approach.
My advice would be to develop a marketing campaign in a storytelling way. It means not only to make good content or visuals but also to develop the whole content plan as a story which viewers should follow. From our experience it makes subscribers waiting for a new post and gives more engagement on a page. The storytelling approach can vary based on the product or services you are selling.
Thanks.
Good optimized website + google ads and retargetting.

Then instagram + influencers.

Twitter to create a brand

Fb has too much noise to stand out. I would be wary of spending too much on it. Just be active and focus on oragic growth there.

Also, drip marketing for better user experience.
Fb+Ig ads combined with influencers
Considering your budget and bussiness type you should follow product based advertisement policy at the beggining. It is relatively cheap and short-term act. Facebook, Instagram and google ads are the best choice for that. Before publishing ads be sure that your website is mobile optimized since most of potential users of yours will be connected through mobile devices. Afterwards when you have more budget and renown you should develop SEO.
Can I be brutally honest? 




Hope this isn't discouraging! I think you have the start to a solid website going. Some fine tuning and you'll be humming along in no time. Feel free to DM if you want!
That’s a great idea thank you. Do you suggest maybe messaging specific people that follow us on social media as well? If so what might be a good type of thing for the message regard?
The two best way is to just keep your money and send your products to instagram influencers for immediate results and work on SEO for your website for long run.

If you promote great content to the right audience, sure.
Yes, it can.

Not only you can earn links by promoting your blog post, but also detect broken links on other relevant websites and offer them a link on your website they can replace it to; offer your expert opinion on a subject matter of someone’s blog posts and they can link back to you, and many other tactics.

The only important thing is that you need to do it the right way, be relevant and don’t spam.
If you have high quality content and you are reaching out to people who have high authority blogs. Then yeah its possible.

Its all about the approach. You need to offer them something that improves the value of their blog post.
they will most likely ask to see examples of content. Make sure the content you show them is 100%, relevant to the publication and not promotional.
What services do you offer?

I’ve seen Instagram working pretty good for this kind of businesses.
Feel free to DM. But you definitely need to become the go-to expert in travel and culture in that area. There are some good models for it. You’ll also need to find a way to be trustworthy to your buyers! Travel isn’t a “thing” that people can just return; it’s experiential and important and life-altering. People are far more leery of small players in this space.
It always comes down to who you're targeting. I'd use FB and Instagram stories build like a tour/road trip. It will come down to the photos and the story they tell. Since you're low on budget link your images to a simple landing page link to either Drip or Mailchimp autoresponder so that you can show investors analytics on the growth rate in interest in your offering. Good luck!
I recommend adding Avg. Search Impression Share column to your table. You can find it under Competitive Metrics when you are customizing columns.

There you can see the percentage of searchs that you show your ad. You can target a bigger percentage and increase your daily budget through time while monitoring avg search imp. share.
Are you trying to hit a specific return on ad spend (ROAS)? Usually, for ecommerce it is best to work to a ROAS target you are happy to achieve. For example, your advert spends £10 but lands a sale worth £100 - this would be a ROAS of 1,000% or 10:1. The figure you are trying to hit will depend on internal profit margins and other costs.

Assuming you are importing the revenue data into Google Ads, you can see the ROAS of your campaigns/ad groups by adding in the 'conv. value / cost' column under Performance. This column will show you your ROAS.

If you are happy with the ROAS of your campaigns, I would recommend opening up your budgets accordingly. As other users have stated, I would also check out your impression share, specifically, the 'Lost IS (Budget)' column. This column will show you the percentage of impressions you have missed due to budget restraints.
Just adding here that you should do TONS of research on the company before preparing your pitch deck. Even though it’s just an internship, companies consistently undervalue digital marketing and expect the world for pennies.



Unfortunately, I’ve seen dozens of people put together incredible pitch decks, provide amazing solutions, only to be turned down for the job. Surprise, surprise, a month later they launch a campaign veeeerry similar to the ones they proposed during the interview.

Your time, energy and education are valuable. I hope this isn’t the case, but I just had to say something! Wish you the best of luck!
I'd be happy to help. I have worked in digital marketing for almost 8 years and can try to point you in the right direction.

If it's on the ppc side, I would focus on the structure of the site and build keywords from there in broad match modified based on the services/products they provide. You really need to research the company and their products / services before doing anything else. For example, What kind of business is the company? Where is the company located? What times do we open and close? What areas are we targeting? What is the unique selling proposition of our products/services? What are things we have done that make us stand out from our competition (Awards/Reviews/Performance)? 


Phew.... That was a lot. I can talk about seo too but it would be just about as long lol.
You may be able to impress with some very simple and free things, for example get a free trial on SEM Rush - show him some reports on relevant keywords and traffic, links etc.


Competitor analysis would be another interesting thing to show them.
ex-journalist here:

Only thing you need is curiosity.  


1. be fascinated not only for words but also for design: take some Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign courses, read some graphic design books to get better eye for beautiful things. 
2. be curious why printed newspapers and magazines live, thrive and get above the water (so advertising, look at it, look at copy and look at design)
3. be interested how printed magazines sold themselves on social media -(so social media, design, mass mailing because you get a lot of mailing campaign mails), through online campaigns, through mail campaigns... And what if I tell you, you can automate that mailing campain - if I register and visit few times, I may get mail to complete offer for subscription... And here we go to the world of online.


1. be curious for design - look at some blogs (google it) how good web design looks like. 
3. be curious how they work - make your own blog (or work in some media), just start some quick easy wordpress blog, how to publish something, how to promote it on social media, how to make mass mailing for subscribers, how to use services to do that... then you definitely get interested in web development. 
4. be interested in web dev - you neeed to know what is HTML, CSS, JS and some content management system (for example wordpress). So do some cheap good rated courses on Udemy. Some of the Web Development... It is about 12 dollars on Udemy or Free on YouTube with some time spent on searching. You need learn how to code web because you want to have nice mass mails. After that maybe some PHP and databases because you have your own blog, yeah? You dont need to be mega coder but imagine you work for e-shop (or you have one).
6. You have some own website... that is good for presenting yourself. Now start to learn thinking. Problem solving is necessary technique to master. Javascript could help. You will also encounter in your digital marketing world... Impression pixels (often gave by advertising agency along with banner to websites) are javascript codes. 

&#x200B;


You need tools to create, to measure and to solve problems (this should be your brain). Learn them. 

Curiosity produce thinking and critical thinking.

&#x200B;

Maybe, you as psychology degree, can start a blog about mental well-being and mental health and burnout and all that shit and apply all above to that. Make it your project. And after that, present it to your future employer - here, I did it all by myself, lots of digital marketing had to be done.
Digital marketing is like an ocean. You need to chose what niche you will be picking up.

Since you like writing, I would suggest content writing as this will come naturally to you. 

Also, blog post, product description, email marketing, headlines for adwords etc. These all stem our from having a good command over how to play the game with user's mind. 

Good luck! 

Ps- It takes a while to develop a niche. It took me 3 years. So, don't be faZed. To earn by the time you become world class in a particular niche, you might be needing to learn basics of other form of digital marketing.
Hi!

A translator here. Digital Marketing really has A TON of paths: data analysis, content marketing, SEO, SEM, E-mail marketing, Automation, Social Media... The good thing about that is that it's really easy to jump between career paths (even if you studied journalism and want to specialize in data), so you should get the basics on everything, know which path do you like the most and then apply for an internship or start working towards that goal.

I started with Google's Digital Marketing Course, then jumped straight to Ads and Analytics (these two are CRUCIAL). Then I created a wordpress webpage just to mess around and experiment with stuff. Read blogs, study some articles, watch videos and learn, learn, learn. When you feel you are ready, try to jump straight into an internship, and you will be on your path to really become a digital marketer.

Content Marketing is something that you might like doing, you can even look into social media management as well. To take it further, you can learn website management and be in charge of a website. I think the creative part of social digital marketing is saturated and very competitive. The money is in tech, analytics, and product marketing. Location also plays a factor.
Hello,

Digital marketing is a small term with deep sense. It is a bunch of activities where you need to choose either one or many of them according to your skills and interest. There is a lot of work likes blogging,  SEO activities, Affiliate marketing, Email marketing, website designing using wordpress like applications, and so on. But I personally suggest you to choose either **Blogging** or Affiliate marketing. Blogging is the term we all are familiar with but I put some light on **Affiliate marketing** \- a process of earning commission by promoting other people's product on your own blog or website.  It all depends on your own interest of work, so choose any one of them and start your new destiny.
Hi there,

What kind of help you want?

Do you want to hire a freelancer or you are just looking for idea how to scale you business?
LinkedIn Ads for B2B.

Also Google Ads targeting is improving and their Display ads are even better targeted than their search ads.

Also can you be an Alibaba merchant?
Hi Rocka,

Cold emailing is actually the best way for you to find potential clients. Website and funnels are great and all, but if nobody knows who you are and nobody visits you, you have to let them know that you are there.






While you’re job hunting, build your own website so you can have something to show. I’d never take a candidate seriously who didn’t have at least a one page site.


- Maintain website content (CMS) 
- Build and maintain email marketing campaigns 
- Coordinate marketing collateral materials for conferences with cross functional departments
- create marketing plans and timelines 

I would try to get in doing email marketing (that’s what I did) or as a Marketing Coordinator ... once you get the foot back in the door you’ll get all the exposure .. I started as a specialist and moved up. ..
 
Definitely look at the Facebook blueprint courses. While you don’t need to take the exams (as each cost $150 and you need to take the core + either planning or buying exam), the online, free courses are helpful to understand strategies and basic terms for Facebook as quite a bit could have changed in two years.
I'm always so cautious of spending all this money on classes you think you need to be successful in digital marketing. It just isn't the case.. The internet is such an amazing source for anything, ESPECIALLY learning. And honestly, the BEST knowledge you can get, is just by doing it yourself. There is a difference in being taught what you THINK you need to know, and what you *actually* need to know.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;


1. VERY familiar with FB Ads Manager.
3. Google AdWords for your PPC. 
4. Photoshop for making your own ad creatives and graphics for whatever.

Don't go for certifications. Best way to learn is just to do it & deploy campaigns. Employers want folks who could deliver value. Try volunteering at a non-profit in your spare time if you need experience.
I think with already skills you can become a designer.
Compare Facebook best practices with what they are doing on a campaign and creative level.
Start your own website. It's really inexpensive to make a simple blog-style site. You can set up and add Google Analytics and search console for free. Social media accounts are all free, so you can create those to drive traffic to your site. Basically, you create a digital publication and learn about driving traffic and analyzing traffic in a way that is 100% hands-on and not expensive. If you want to put small investments into Google Ads, then that's another way to drive traffic and learn about ad creation.
Udemy has some great classes! Lots of free guides/Youtube tutorials out there.
There are a bunch of classes for paid advertising. Maybe you can score some discount codes or free trials?
You can take free or paid course from udemy. Or you can create simple blog site and can promote it through SEO and PPC. There are lot of PPC tutorial available on YouTube. You can find lot of information about PPC through Google search. There are lot of site that provide information about SEO and PPC like searchengineland.
1. You need to run client ads through their own business FB page with their attached payment method. Then they'll make you an Admin so that you can create and run campaigns.
1. Get yourself signed up for a free Facebook Business Manager Account using the name of your business (business.facebook.com)
2. Add your employee who will be managing the ads to this account, and give them an appropriate level of access for their role.
3. Add all the pages you will be managing/running ads for to business manager and give said employee access. If you're not already an admin on these pages, you can request access through business manager. It's very professional since the access request will show up as being from your business.
6. Always run ads on a client ad account, never on your business account. Allowing your clients to understand how much of their money is going to ad spend and how much of it is going to management fees is a positive sign of accountability and transparency for your business. Scammy businesses who try to skim money off the top of client ad spend do it the other way.


Good luck!

&#x200B;

Edited because typos.

Write all of those down. Write out your rationale for your choices the first couple of times. Look at reporting that addresses those choices. Write down what you learned and what you should do next time. 

Truth is you’re going to have a lot of trial and error—try to maximize what you learn from each trial.


However, my campaign is about to end and I only reached <20,000 per variation (which is well below the sample size needed to reach stat sig).



Snapchat is way less stringent on political ads so if your demo is younger maybe start there?
On the upside you get to call in and interact with Google customer service, truly the shining star among those who know their product well and go the extra mile to solve your problem /s



Find long tail keywords in your niche that you can create content around. Drive search ad traffic to content. Sell within your content and then retarget viewers of that content to your actual offer page.



We get sub $1 clicks in almost any niche from Google search doing this. Then we pay maybe another $1 per click through retargeting but have a super high conversion rate because they’re a bit warmer by the time they see the ad.
I don’t think it’s google ads itself that is competitive. Rather, it’s your niche. Unfortunately, some services’ keywords are vastly more expensive to bid on than others. I’ve found that most digital services are pretty expensive. I’m still new to the game, but I’d recommend trying to find keyword phrases that are less common and bid on those to gain some traction. I’m sure you know this, but it’s important to make sure that you’re optimizing your landing page as well as you can so that those costly clicks don’t go to waste. Good luck!!
> Google ads are indeed very competitive - But that's because it's the most used SE across the globe. I'd recommend taking a fair amount of time doing keyword research, target those that don't have much competition recorded, as well as long tail keywords as mentioned already.   
>  
>  
>Also- Have you considered audience targeting?
I think you should try to use youtube ads
I'd be interested in replies to this also. 


We use AC. It's been around for a while and easy to implement. Also great for sharing our success automation between clients with little rework. We have not used SS. Good luck.
Change in MOZ algorithms. Shouldn't be much of a worry though. Keep doing what you're doing best. You can read more about it here: [https://moz.com/blog/new-domain-authority](https://moz.com/blog/new-domain-authority)
Is it a new domain you want to analyze or the existing one? If it's a domain that has been around for a little while, try using MOZ Link Explorer:  [https://moz.com/link-explorer](https://moz.com/link-explorer) \- free tool that gives you all sorts of info about inbound links, domain authority, etc.
Targeted content for lead gen and SEO with email capture, then email nurturing. Plenty of people still on Facebook/Instagram, with retargeting and prospecting based on custom and lookalike audiences being major for B2B. B2B Google Ads get crazy competitive, but if you have the budget it can convert well. Could you target accelerators or SaaS holding companies? Those decision makers influence lots of other decision makers
**Error 404** is a client-side **error**, implying that the **error** is your mistake, either because you typed the URL incorrectly or the page has been moved or removed from the website and you should have known.
Yes, it is because redirection is an additional request to the server from the client side. You may know that whenever a page gets to load into the client's browser. It sends some request to the website server for some resources. The less the request send by the page the more it loads quicker. Now you may get an idea that an additional request can increase the load time of the page.


&#x200B;

Now if there is something that would separate some digital marketers from the rest of the pack, then, design and behavioral economics would do the trick.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps

&#x200B;

For sure it will be an advantage.

I’ve been doing digital marketing strategy for the last 12 years. I define that as everything from website strat (Info architecture, requirements gathering, to content strategy), social strategy (community engagement, channel management and content strat), email marketing strat. And digital media strat (display, paid search, paid social) and  None of those need you to touch code. 


That said, having an understanding of coding won’t hurt you as it gives you additional insight into the technical aspect of the projects. 



I think you're at an absolute insane disadvantage without this knowledge if you want to go into digital marketing.



And for actual marketing funnels, you still don’t need to do anything technical thanks to plugins and SaaS. 

If you can use a mouse then you already have all the technical skills you need.
If you know how to modify/edit/create landing pages or modify landing pages from scratch, (Using CSS/HTML/JS/etc) you can work within any CMS that your client is already running. That makes it a lot easier to get results for your client if you can get them a better landing page than everyone else that reports better, more nuanced data.


Or would you rather hire the company that sends PPC traffic to the homepage or just hacks together awful WP plugins and themes that give them the same generic metrics everyone else gets? 

I see a lot of people saying you don't need any coding, or that you can launch a website in minutes in WordPress...


If there is a bot running the accounts, it might store usernames it is following in a database, and then draw on that database of usernames for other accounts. So, bot account A discovers you because of some hashtag or some follower of yours, stores you in a database. When bot account B, C, and D run but don't find anyone to follow, they fall back on the data stashed by account A and follow you that way.
A lot of those rats(spam bots) work on the same principle - they "attack" famous or popular accounts. If you follow the same accounts with all of your accounts - there is a good reason they will reach you. Also, there is a possibility of making the connection via friends, family accounts that you follow or if they follow you back on your accounts.

Spam like how? Like fake comments and likes? Only way to avoid that is set your account to private but you limit your growth that way.
Spam bots tend to target the followers of popular accounts. Example if both your account follow <insert popular instagram account here> it goes through the followers of that account and spams them.
Have you ever run any ads from your personal ad account outside of business manager? If you created an ad account for your business then you still have a separate personal ad account that came with your personal Facebook account that might have a small balance riding on it that you forgot, or that you just unintentionally billed to that ad account when setting up a campaign at some point.

Also, rather than trying to boost posts from inside the Instagram app, you could just create a new ad campaign with the Engagement goal, then when you’re creating your new ads for the campaign, choose the option to use an existing post. You’ll get a pop-up with all of the posts that you can promote. 

Look for the Instagram tab in that pop-up. If you can’t select it, then make sure the Instagram account you connected to your FB Business Manager is selected. The option is very close to the button you click to use an existing post as an ad.

Once you’re in the Instagram tab, choose a post to use in your ad, then repeat.

This way you can create one shared budget that all of your promoted Instagram posts, and the posts that perform best will get the majority of your budget. 

If you want to spread budget out evenly then just create separate ad groups or campaigns for each post you want to promote.
PR is a great way to get good back links and quality traffic to your website. You can plan one PR quarterly. You can submit PR to paid websites and free websites.
PR is not a blog or an article. It is a press document that is based on your products and services. Generally, companies do the press release when they are going to launch a product and services or they are going to make a big announcement. You can do press release if you are going to do any time among these tasks.

That said, if your conversion points are solid, give it a go.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps.
Basically every platform has a different way of attributing clicks and conversions. It's a rabbit hole. 

Are you using UTM parameters on the link from Twitter? That could help you diagnose.
 GA:  
Site visits: 115  


Are these unique views? If yes, Perhaps those link clicks on twitter aren't unique, some users might've clicked several times.  




I believe the best thing to do to track the real number of clicks coming from TW is to use their a unique tracking link on whose clicks will then reflect on the Campaign section of GA.
And not just men - it's one of the least publicly discussed issues for women, especially post child birth. I'd also look at new mums of any ages as a potential segment. Assuming it's a unisex not male product.
Ask in r/jobs and explain where you live and what are your experience.Also i would recommend you to keep doing freelancing with the job just make some limits as it will boost your earnings.
The role you should go for is Content writer or SEO executive but if you learn PPC & FB campaigns  you can go for Digital marketing executive (best paid).

Also make a customised C.V in which mention your previous work and clients you can add some reference of a big or good project you did in past and brother happy married life in future i would be needing marriage related tips.

You have good overall digital marketing skills, so you should have no problem applying for Digital Marketing Specialist / Manager roles which usually cover a range of DM skills from planning / strategy, execution (paid ad setup) etc. If you are you more interested in one area (eg SEO) then you can focus on a single stream and apply for SEO Specialist roles, for example.

I don't think you should aim for entry or "executive"  roles - if you've run full digital marketing campaigns from start to finish and you have 5+ years experience, you should be aiming higher. Take a look at some jobs on Linkedin and see where you stand.

&#x200B;

I don't have any specific advice really, good luck!
Event tracking with google tag manager, create event with any click with sign up button, then you will see result in google analytic in events section

&#x200B;

Ps on some WordPress themes, this can be a PITA 

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
GTM as people say - or in Google Analytics you can create a 'sign up' event that is triggered whenever your thank you for signing up page loads.


Good luck!
Go to udemy search you will see a course that suit your desire
I would definitely say start connecting (or following) the CMOs / digital marketing directors / social media marketing managers at some companies resonate with you and how they approach that topic. I think you would be surprised by how many, share amazing insight into the way they do things.

&#x200B;

and it doesnt get more real life than hearing it from the mouths of the folks who do it every day, rather than a book or professor.
Quicksprout has lots of great stuff
You'll get the most understanding from the training platforms give to advertisers. They'll literally tell you how to use the platform better than the average user and in many cases give case studies for campaign starting points.
Hello, online courses and by doing practice will make you expert in social media marketing go to Lynda or Udemy
How are you planning to run this? I am curious
I like this idea.
Sure!
Sounds good. But how?

What do u think?
This concept is new and quite interesting
Learn google ad words and SEO
Learn content marketing 
Learn Facebook ads


Qlutch seems useful for non-marketing professionals or for people without much marketing experience to build plans, but paying for things you can easily google and find advice on for free probably isn't a great investment. That said, I don't have direct experience with it, so others may have found success with it.
I'm putting one together on Piktochart right now. Free online software and pretty malleable for a free service. Strongly recommend. Really good if you want to use info-graphics heavily in your plan and have it be visually interesting.
Don't post about your products. Post about your audience.
Can't really tell you much as I'm not sure what sort of products you are selling but I guess at this stage where there is so much noise and unfavorable algorithm change for brands....you should just focus on content quality. Could be as few as once a month or once a quarter..but everytime you post, it is something ppl will look forward to!
Customer pictures are always great - If not try creating blogs that are relevant to the products you sell. Blogs are handy for SEO as well as giving you content to promote on social media.
Google Analytics gives courses on how to use it for casual/advanced use
I am a Google Certified Partner. If you have any questions about google ads just send a message. I can send you google online courses I think these are free of charge.
The google Certs are good to get for your resume but in terms of learning they’re not the best imo. There’s a channel I found the other day on YouTube that was really good called Surfside PPC I think? And there’s a bunch of other good channels as well!
On Facebook, you can look at a competitor's page and click the "Ads info" section to show all of the sponsored posts they've run. For Google, you just gotta keep doing searches, but it's not a 100% guarantee you'll see everything.
For Google you can use SEMRush.com
Google ad preview tool can be used for this.
If you follow any sort of blueprint for a marketing strategy you’re likely doing it wrong, all businesses are unique and so should be the marketing strategy. 

My advice would be to totally forget the notion of “I need to do a marketing plan” and think about the problem you want to solve. What it is you want to achieve before you even consider how you’re going to achieve it.

It should end up like a tree. At the trunk is the core aim. As you go up the tree it branches out with goals to meet the aim each having their own leaves that are smaller projects that lead into the goal. Only then can you start making a plan of what to do and when. When you get to this stage look up SMART goals and make sure your goals cover each of the categories.

Good luck 👍

 If this isn't your area of expertise I suggest you communicate with your employer that you are a specialist for one particular job. Tell them that they should consider bringing more people on, or an overseer to work with you for the most beneficial relationship.

Google. And hit and trial.


Also, take up a project and give your best.
I’m all about podcasts. People teach stuff on podcasts that you’d typically have to buy their courses to learn. Some of the best educational resources available.
Buffer has a great list on what you should be learning. They even link to some classes.  I'm on mobile so I dont have to link. But if you search their site it should be on there.
If you want to spend a bit of money, I think about 2-3k Oxford Uni Business School (SAID) has a on line disruptive digital marketing course which is meant to be good.

Else Udemy!
I've built a group of around 500, pretty quickly, on Facebook... what are you trying to do/gain

Set UP a professional group for your focus group.
Switch the first two paragraphs , you have like half a second to pique interest and the who and whst should be center stage (even though you're offering them work)

Edit: feel free to DM me, I’d be happy to help you out with this a bit more.
This is just something that I always say at the beginning ... “hope all is well”. Shows your friendly and the first thing they read isn’t marketing bullshit. It’s sincere.. unless you just hate life lol good luck  

Oh, and I also always end my first touch with “talk soon.” Kinda assuming  that there will be a meeting between the two because you’ve done your research and know you’re a good fit for them.


Would you respond to:

1 Dear Jon Snow of Winterfell

Hi, are you looking to defeat the white walkers?

Or

 2 Dear Jon Snow of Winterfell


My name is /u/CoffeeRaider and after visitintgyour website yada, yada.

Dont take my word for it.  Test it out for yourself.
Hey Rude bag,

This will not get much response at all. I send 500-1000 cold emails per day and found that writing emails as if you were talking to the actual person and not as if you are pitching helps immensely.

They really do not care who you are and what you are offering, they are only interested in what helps them (Brutal but the truth).


What do you mean "put up some searches"?

Google's entire business model is about selling search data for advertising...


Check out myactivity.google.com for all potential info that google has on you to sell. I was shocked that they record and KEEP all of the voice recordings from any google/android device I used!
Duh google adwords 🤣🤣🤣
Instead of searching for the interest of “chef”. 
Hit browse. Then search through behaviors. I think it’s under there somewhere. Or you can type in Chef except don’t click the one that says 3.1 mil. Look to the right of each suggestion and it should say tell you what kind of keyword your targeting.
You can target the profession as some suggested. 


Another way to do that is to filter with the offer. If you decide to stick with the original audience, or your new audience will be too small here s what I suggest: 

So what is, in your opinion, the difference?


And SMM encompasses both paid and organic Social Media. So not sure what you are trying to label as SMO.
Definitely something you could do with an Arduino or Raspberry Pi.
Maybe you're referring to smiirl, try googling it
What kind of survey? Are you targeting a specific audience?

What platform will you be using for your survey?
If it's very large, you'll want to give a reward for each person that participates in it.
Use typeform + remember to give some incentive
What is your purpose? This will help. You need to be pretty detailed to get the right answers.
Google forms! How large of a survey?
Take the average CPC from the days where you let it run and the amount you've set it at in the past. Work out the difference then add 10% of that to the target CPC and see what happens. Then add another 10% and repeat.



There are loads of other less-shady/potentially illegal ways of improving your facebook advertising
Regardless of your field/profession, it's never a good idea to quit before you've found another job.


&#x200B;

Work on the certifications \[google ads academy / digital garage \] and then search for a new job. 


You gotta try and try until you freakin' get it..


Cheers!
As far as i've known an experienced, as long as you (the customer) have your phone connected to google AND your GPS is on, google just automatically asks you to review places he thinks you've been to based on GPS coordinates. 

Marketing campaigns you’ve worked on, screenshots/PDFs/Print outs of your work. I like to create one-sheets similar to case studies with the problem, my actions, and the results.
I never heard of digital marketers needing a portfolio - is this for your resume or your own agency? I am  not sure you need one - what you need is work experience and growth metrics.
My suggestion: Take a screenshot of the project you are starting to work on (it's Analytics and social media profiles) and compare it with the time when you have worked on the project after a while. that's a great portfolio.
You can create some case studies you have worked on achieved good results, PPT of your work and results.
Hi! HRcat here!

You should present some case studies, reports or analytics about the project you've worked for - it is important showcasing what was **your** part in it! If you had a role in the creative department then adding a great portfolio is a must. 

You can also create great and simple infographics to showcase what you can deliver - or your knowledge about a specific market.  

You're resume/ portfolio should showcase what attributes or skillset you bring to the desired company. If you are content oriented, showcase your writing skills. If you are more data-driven and that is your thing - than analytics should do the job.


&#x200B;

Good Luck Meow
The gurus don't even scratch the surface of opportunity out there. You can use digital marketing to build and sell your own product/website, you can sell digital marketing services to businesses, you can work  remotely in-house or for an agency.


I have my own clients, do part-time consulting for an agency on the other side of the country, and have my own sites that generate revenue. Tons of opportunities. Check out website broker sites like feinternational.com or empireflippers.com to get a glimpse.
Of course. I have no desire to be a guru personality, but I work from home doing digital marketing for a few good clients
Absolutely, though it depends on the job and the company.

I currently work in an office leading a team of digital strategists at an agency, but at my last agency I worked from home with a 100% remote team for six years.


Other than that, I worked from home all day, full-time, with good salary and benefits. 

Most agencies aren’t great at recruiting, especially for entry-level positions. You’ll need to reach out to agencies on your own and find/make your own opportunities. Once you’ve been in the industry long enough and have been promoted a few times you’ll be fighting off recruiters with a stick, if you’re happy with where you’re at and not looking to move, at least.

Before I got into digital marketing I owned an IT consulting business. My first agency I worked for was all global tech companies, so my IT background was useful. From there I learned from the more senior members of the team and on my own. I don’t have a degree, nor did I have an advertising background (beyond advertising my own business). Now, I’m mentoring and teaching my own team the ropes.


It sounds like you might be missing the data range dimension.  




Hope this helped - otherwise please elaborate a little bit more on the issue to see if I can help.
Definitely add a certifications section if you can fit it, similar style to a skills section. 

Digital marketing, and specifically content marketing is a portfolio-heavy field which can be very discouraging for entry-level applicants. Analytics, PPC, and social tool literacy are all great to have in your arsenal, but content creation is a major part of most gigs. If you're being hired to create marketable content, your best bet is to show proof that you can.

Your blog is a good start. Pull and showcase 2-3 excerpts from posts, bonus points if you can show data-driven methods for how your article drove traffic to your blog, whether it be organic, direct, or social. Other than that, consider faux-work. Draft posts for various social platforms for faux-businesses that showcase you know how to navigate those platforms. Write short articles that demonstrate your writing. Create infographics, short videos, and engaging media, etc. Compile it into a portfolio attached to your resume, and you'll land a job in the field. 

It may seem like a LOT of work, but its also a great way to test and practice the skills you're learning in your courses.
I haven't found one GOOD group, most of them are all spam and JUNK
Honestly just based on my opinion, do not drop out. It’s better to have a degree and pursue your other interest in any free time you may have (without sacrificing your studies). Even with a lower GPA, your skills you acquire from the collegiate classes and applying them and practicing while in school and after will aid you in the future. IT is a great career path and in the technologically advancing world and your craft will be sought after. Keep at it! You got this

&#x200B;


&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Good luck.
Possessing an IT degree and then pivoting into digital marketing (maybe doing an MBA addon later) is a unique career path. You basically get to work on some of the key stuff guys from business school aren't comfortable with - be it SEO, Google Adwords or Marketing Analytics. Plus if you're a good programmer, you can code your own scripts for data aggregation, mining and most importantly, generating the reports.
Get your IT degree and then look into working in ad tech.
Definitely, especially if your school keeps you up-to-date with the latest practices used in the IT field. IT is always one of the best foundations one can have to excel in the digital marketing industry. Have a degree in IT will give you the advantage.

Plus, the diploma you'll get will speak much about how you got it through college, not to mention it's IT, which is a difficult course.
Sure its really worth . There are many Graduates looking for IT jobs ,Depend on the IT courses you can get a good job in IT Company .
Any history of results to compare to?
What’s the objective - traffic, conversions, reach?
Brand guidelines
Who are their target customers?

Just a few thoughts.


1. I would only go for that particular niche if you are an authentic part of that scene and already have connections. Obviously your agency should then be branded as conscious, wholesome, etc.

2. Are you interviewing the kind of entrepreneurs you want to become your clients? If yes, the podcast should help with your branding and provide a wider network of contacts. 

3. If you cater to the vegan/PT niche, I would rather go full-service. If you cater to everyone, I would focus on just one discipline first. 

4. Depends. Most businesses blogs are a waste of time. If you have a plan for writing the kind of content that brings you clients or demonstrates your expertise, sure, do it.
Something to think about. What is it you want from these potential fans/community?

Do you want more people to listen to your music?

Do you want more people to enjoy your music?

Do you want them to buy your music?

Do you want your music to used more?

Build a quality blog/site  create a  separate Facebook page and join groups that share your interests, create a YouTube channel and add daily content which you should already have. In my view post a video every day for at least 3 weeks. So 21 videos.  Add all the other social network platforms. Get familiar with what your other people in your market are  doing and  copy there strategies (not their work) in your style. Spend a few weeks on each platform one at a time, that will get you more confident and you will soon see by testing what works and what doesn't. 

Making genuine connections is easy, probably the easiest way would be to be active in groups or forums in your field. and then all you have to do is be genuine. Worst mistake in my opinion would be to try and be someone you are not that just attracts the wrong audience... Focus should be on branding yourself as you are the product.

Hope that helps
You might read some books on networking. A lot of them were written before digital marketing became a thing but the concepts are the same, if the execution is a bit different. 

What is your goal? You want fans, why? What is your final product that you are selling? 

First thing is to build social media pages for your work. This could just be your personal account or you have separate "artist" accounts. Post quality content and post it often. For example, if you have a gig somewhere and need to fill seats you can run local Facebook Ads with an offer maybe from the place you're playing at. If you are at a bar headline could be: 
GREAT MUSIC GREAT DRINKS
(Not the best thing but an example)
The idea of the offer is to make it pretty big so people actually want it. That's all in the people that own the event space.
I would find someone on youtube who made it big but had  to start from nothing - there is lots of them. Study their journey then use it as a guideline. I can sit here and write a 3000 word essay from a technical point of view why this is good advance but I cant do that. chances are youre not the first one or last one to do this so learn from those who have done it and honestly- copy them until youre comfortable branching off and developing youre own technique. I would research youtube heavily and make a spreadsheet of your findings. I could give more technical answer but its not gonna help you.

&#x200B;

Good source on modeling business/youtube channel: Tim Ferris

The bloggers you repost might have an issue. Ideally you ask via DM before reposting their content.
Most of the time accounts ask ops of they can repost, and as long as credit is given, its fine. There are a lot of IG accounts that do nothing but repost, gain followers, then use those followers to start making money on adds, pay per click, and sponsored content.
I do a lot of reposting for clients, and typically as long as you tag and credit the original poster you shouldn't have an issue.

That being said, the answer is a lot.
I’m in growth marketing and I’d say executing on campaigns is like 4 hours a day? Rest is just researching and planning for campaigns.
I probably go on Reddit for about an hour a day (as I'm doing right now). However, most of the time I do spend working.
Are you at an agency?  I'm in-house and "slow" doesn't exist.
I constantly feel like I'm behind, so I don't have a lot of slack time. Between creating content calendars, scheduling posts, sifting through campaign and web analytics data, creating graphics, writing proposals,  researching and double checking budgets and ROI, drafting email campaigns, looking at past campaign performance and planning out upcoming campaigns... on top of weekly meetings and keeping other departments out of trouble... my days are full.

I does not count my work in hour on the other hand the results of my work is better parameter.
Just go and get a job. You’ll learn as much in 3 months as you did in three years doing your degree.
How much experience do you have?

I would tell you that I can count on one hand the number of people in my industry that earn 7 figures or more that have digital marketing degrees much less a Masters degree.... But I would have to chop off my hands because the number is 0. 

I know more than I actually have GEDs..



Edits.  Sorry typos talk to text.. you know what i mean..


 I received my Master's last October. I think it's totally worth.
What do you want to do with it? Ecomm director? yes.
I would think hands on experience would be more valuable. Also, you can get google certifications for free at ad academy.
No way. Get some experience and then go get a masters focused on Analytics or something along those lines. It will be infinitely more valuable. But whatever you do, get a few years of experience first.



I also plan to move to Canada and MSc gives me more points in express entry but that's just an added bonus ;-)

Digital marketing is one of the hottest topic of discussion these days because of the growing interest and heavy usage of different social media account by billions of users.

After completing my graduation I always wanted to open my business, but as I entered the world of business I found that every businesses are setting their business in different social media sites, and are enjoying the outcome of doing so. This thing grabs my attention and then I opted for doing masters in Digital marketing first, to take my business online.
In our marketingcat opinion, no, it's not. Better take a short course, start an internship and learn along the way.

Practices and tools change in crazy pace, and there is no second to acquired experience - yes, it will be more demanding and you'll probably feel a little in a fog. But you can achieve a lot in 6 months in terms of knowledge and understanding.

&#x200B;

Good luck Meow!
If you only want to be a cog in the wheel of a proctor and gamble brand or some similar then the 100k in extra debt might work out. Most of the successful digital marketers I know either have no degree or an irrelevant bachelors like psychology or music, and definitely no masters.
Traffic is a result of people visiting your site (of course), so you must be giving them a reason to visit! 

Start with your broad networking circle, and recommend people check it out. If the content and design is good people will return and Google will start improving your rankings. 

Focus more on SEO then do google ads, facebook ads and other social platforms if you can't do it yourself hire someone
Hopefully you have Google Search Console connected to your website. If so, look at the query information, and specifically look for queries where your site has impressions but the average position is > 10 (so on page 2+ of search results).

If the queries are keywords you'd like to generate more traffic for, build up the content on your website about these topics. Specifically make sure you are offering valuable content around those topics and answering the questions (if they are questions) people are searching for. 

I’d go to the IT or CS route then get an MBA for the business skills.
Most of the digital marketing stuff isn’t taught at university anyways, you need to learn in the job or from online courses/certifications
Keep your major and learn / read as much as you can about digital marketing. 

Here's my advice (I literally did this) - create a website and learn SEO, Social Media and Email. Create a website about something you're interested in and write content (or pay someone), get relevant graphics (learn or pay someone) and get the site to rank.

When you graduate - show your project to employers. It will be enough to land you a job. I've been working on side hustles since College and was able to land a pretty sweet gig in NYC right after graduation. FYI, I also majored in Comp Sci and had an internship as a front-end developer.
No, you don’t have to switch your major. 


I’m not sure about your situation, but for me, I’m a Chinese and studied in the US, and then went back to China. My first company hired me simply bc I’m good at English, and play a lot of games. (I’m working in the mobile game industry) 




The good ones, and there are several options give you all the tools and training you need. Not overly expensive. The market is wide open with every local business crying out   for help. 

They have no idea how to sort out hosting, build a site sort out ssl certificates and everything else. Most of them are not advertising correctly, not targeting there visitors not building subscriber lists. The list goes on...
I can share with you some thoughts.


What she lacks or at least 
need improving is layering/segmenting customers targeting with regards to both behavioral psychology and lacks of product knowledge. For your case, a good throughout read on some core marketing books and applications should helps imagining the bigger picture when there is so much more than just data. But in the end, data expertise will be the cross point for business scaling and implementing automation. Just my 2cents, I wish I mayored in CS.




Look into all the different types of coding jobs because they make way more than digital marketers without being a manger. If you really think digital marketing is interesting develop that on the side.
 Yes
Look into A/B testing. I minored in CS and majored in a humanities/social psychology thing.



Just apply.

ye go knock doors and have high energy, if you're really desesperate or need a job, you can offer volunteering to gain trust.
Totally possible and sounds like you are off to a decent start with getting certifications! I'd also take HubSpot's free inbound marketing certification, which will give you more info on email, SEO, content, marketing automation, etc.


Also consider an internship or take on some part time contract marketing work to boost your resume/knowledge bank. 

Best of luck!
First learn the details of topic u want to apply for jobs. if you are planning for social media make sure you learn about specific topics like FB, FB Ads, IG, YouTube etc. So you can show your skills to employer. You can also apply for internship and then based on performance get permanent position.
You can use the Udemy's The complete digital marketing course to get started on what you could do as a digital marketer. there are other more detailed courses as well but it's a good start. good luck

With the right mindset and attitude, you too can land that digital marketing job!
Take Seth Hymes digital marketing course if you have the money. I landed a job in 2 months with that course, Seth is a genius. If you're looking for free or inexpensive course, check out Udemy and Lynda.
Start applying NOW. Don't wait until after you gain good experience because I'm telling you right now...this career doesn't require a fancy degree, or years and years of experience. Definitely try to get the Facebook Blueprint certification but other than that, most of the skills you will learn will be on the job so don't worry too much about experience.
Clicks
Apply.
There's like 5 of these threads a day haha, but yeah search within reddit you'll find what you're looking for.
Look it up on search tab of this subreddit
I have a cracked version of the screaming frog
It will be incredibly useful for targeting all 4 of the people who haven’t switched their default search engine on internet explorer to the useful one.


We have a free SEO course at seo101.com/course
Facebook blueprint if you're looking to run media at all; I think it costs around $300. You can also start taking webinars: emarketer, Adweek and Adage all have good ones.
Try iDeators technologies in Mumbai for Digital marketing courses.
Check out **RankdSEO.com** **backlink database**. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of high-authority websites.

Selfgrowth.com
There are lot of sites that have high DA and provide dofollow backlinks. I advice you just search it on Google and you will find lot of site matching your preferred criteria.
Are you testing from the app on your phone or desktop? I’d imagine adding another redirect with linktree would only make it longer.

Android is slighty better than iPhone, but an option is to get a quick landing page built just for IG that's pretty minimalist to keep your load time even lower to make up for the browser delay.
Absolutely finish. You never know what your future will hold and it's so much harder to go back later in life. Use the remainder of your time there to network and get a good internship, it's all about who you know. 12 years on I'm still somewhat professionally connected to someone I met through my college internship.
Communication works well with \[digital\] Marketing, so consider finishing it.
What have you been using to tech yourself SEM/SEO? I want to teach myself as well but am having trouble finding good content. Any advice/tips ?
I'd suggest you to finish your degree. It is quite relevant to your interest in digital marketing and will help you a lot with developing the right content. Also, some jobs need you to be at least graduate.
I think it is.
Finish it, but be smart about it! Use this time to make as many connections as you can. Look for internships, fellowships and learning opportunities. Get to know your fellow students. Familiarize yourself with the career services office. Go to your professors’ office hours. And of course actually go to class and pay attention.

Finish your degree. You don't know what will happen in the future - you might decide you want to work in a corporate setting in which case not having a degree won't get you far. 

Don't do it, it's not worth it. Apply for jobs, work hard on networking, get experience, that'll put you way ahead of a lot of people.
Hey 

I can give you 4 services to make your small business into a BRAND
Hey!


There's definitely attribution and/or third party ad serving that will help prove in your media, unfortunately, Facebook and Google both are "walled gardens" that only let you see post-click activity/conversion events and not post impression.

The FB reporting pixel I believe will let you also see post impression, however, you would need to define conversion events (form fill, live chat etc) and set up that tracking on your site.
If possible, have you tried Google Analytic attribution model comparisons before? How I can convince clients that awareness campaigns/channels are working is by looking at first click interactions versus last click interactions. Naturally, these awareness campaigns will not show much last click interaction but should show you some decent first click interaction conversions. Hope that helps.
Nice post
You want to look into how Facebook handles view-through conversions. Install the FB pixel and set up your desired conversions; once set up right FB will be able to report how many people who only saw your ad (without clicking on it) later converted. You won’t be able to track on a per person basis though, but it should help you see if you’re having effects.
You can do some of what you're talking about with Assisted conversions, view through and top paths to conversion.

That being said the best value in view through for complete consumer journey are display ads. Not just through GDN but actual tracked and pixeled users who saw and ad and took an indirect action (saw a display ad but later converted thru organic or another channel). The value of enterprise programmatic solutions are that it isn't a walled garden of users like Google and Facebook. With a DMP you can create even more audience and segmentation. 

What's your display/programmatic solution today? Are you using GDN, DBM or something else if any?
[removed]
You could ask your google reps if they have anything, look at google trends yoy or create a specific ppc campaign to capture the specific words in your campaign in your next social media campaign. 

&#x200B;

Good luck.
You're going to have to track your conversions in 3 ways:

&#x200B;

\- Facebook Pixel: this allows you to see facebook conversions (both post click and post impression);

\- Linkedin Pixel: Allows you to see Linkedin Post-impression conversions


&#x200B;

Alternatively you can look into Doubleclick and trafficking your ads with tracking ads. But it will only work if your targeting on Facebook is not based on your custom audiences.
Maybe a way to hack IFTTT?
Would Zapier or something similar work? You could also probably write a Slack bot to do this depending on the platform you use.
[deleted]
Its just getting started and still growing tremendously. The best part about learning how to be a digital marketer and working for somebody for a little while is is that you become good enough to just do it on your own and make the full profit.....

The secret tip of any profession how to earn more is to love what you're doing. 






Absolutely not Infact it is high time you start learning and exploring this platform . Digitalization of platforms has just started hence the market is absolutely vaccant .
It's never too late! Competitive, yes, but you can do it. Learn a lot, ask questions, take free courses, and you'll get into a nice starter gig. Don't expect to make a huge salary at first, but if you get really passionate, creative, and good at it, in a few years you can be six-figures+. Best of luck!
Absolutely not! 

Meow and meow people consume their media via their smart devices, many business owners don't have the time or the necessary understanding of how the market works!

Digital marketing is evolving with the technology around it. Expect it to expand into VR and AR in the following years.

There is a big chance that some of the jobs are going to be automated - but that is more relevant to specific tasks. We believe that the automation will only change the way the Digital Marketing Industry works and involve with it.
Marketing is simply more saturated than before. It's not like the opportunity has disappeared completely. Work hard and seek opportunity. 

Digital Marketing is very good field and you can start learning anytime. You can easily get new job after completing digital marketing course. You can also do freelancing and earn good money through digital marketing. 

paid ads, content, freebies, social media links and check what works in order to adjust.
2. Create a Facebook business account & ads account & give them access to that account instead of vice versa.
3. Learn a little about Facebook analytics (very easy to understand).
5. "TRY" pinterest  as it still dominates the image search in Google and you are selling clothes/accessories. You can get a lot of free traffic & luckily sales from there. but be aware that there are very few users of pinterest in India & most of the users are females which is good actually (Because they buy more as compared to males. 
7. Last but most important "**own every account you/they create in your company's name on any platform".** One way to do it is, create a gmail account with your company name, share the password with only one person from the agency (Digital marketing manager)  and then let them create accounts on Google My Business, Google Search console & Google Analytics. But make sure you are ADMIN on every platform. 

Search sucks for fashion. I’d say the best bet is to go #wokeaf in the brand positioning and make deals with lesser known Instagram models.

Optimize website from search and user point of view. If your website is user friendly then search engine also love your website.

Review your competitor website and check what they are doing.

Syndicate useful content on third party high authority website.

Start PPC campaign for generating conversions.

Use social media accounts( Facebook, Intagram) for brand promotion and generating leads. 

Review Google Analytics account and webmaster account on weekly basis and take necessary steps.
If you follow the way that is use in 2018 you wont be getting the same results as the advertisement are getting expensive and you need to find the way that is effective and you need to keep experimenting.

Yes this will work, not only based there, create good content and ask for guests post this article will help you on how to get your

&#x200B;

To create good backlinks you have to create good content on quality sites - guest posts and influencers. Social Media is great for creating brand loyalty (meow, exactly what we do here) - that's also why so many big brands spend so much on SMM. It's their way of staying relevant in the public.

&#x200B;


If you want quality backlinks - create a blog and articles. Make sure that your content has a value for the market targeted. 


Creating quality backlinks take time and effort. If you are looking to bring more clients - Email marketing has way bigger conversion then Social Media Posts, especially for small businesses.

&#x200B;

Good luck Meow!
Google Docs with folders, Trello, and calendar. That's it!
asana
Hi!

We use tools like Trello, Monday and especially Google Docs and Google Calendar!

&#x200B;


Good luck meow!

Some great tips here. I am a huge fan of Evernote because I am cutting & pasting all the time but I really need a way to put it all together. Thanks for the insights!!
Google calendar linked with all my accounts



CRM for sales and account management (hubspot for full time job, streak for side businesses)
Wunderlist 
* Outlook Calendar for time-boxed tasks.
* Confluence tasks (with deadlines) for checklist kind of things and for tasks associated with certain people/groups/teams.

Although it is super important to watch and learn strategies it is easy to be caught in the trap of never really taking action. If it was me I would start by narrowing down the niche for example SEO, website creation, anchor pages, email marketing. Once you have narrowed down your niche to one in which you have the most confidence in for example SEO I would then research local companies that have sites with poor rankings send them a free SEO report with your contact details and then move on to the next one, you have to know and understand your target market.
You can practice on your own project! Star a Wordpress blog, promote your friends business for part of generated leads or look for an entry-level position. You don't know how much you still have to learn until you really implement your skill in real life.

&#x200B;

Good luck Meow!


Also, set some goals. If you love digital marketing then apply it to your career (if you haven’t already). Like, where would you want to be in 10 years with digital marketing? Setting goals like this will help you find the right place to gain the appropriate experience. If you know you want to be a digital marketing manager in the future then you could say a marketing agency is a good fit for you to gain access to different elements of digital.
I've done this. You can manually submit the video to other companies. Look them up and you'll see part on their site. 


Because YouTube changed their partnership and monetization policies, I'd license the vid.
Do some research!  Take some time to explore Youtubers, books and blogs. What are you interested in or what are your skills? SEO, Design, Social media agency?

There's demand now for managing ads, I think you can check out /r/Entrepreneur or r/Seo por good stories of work.

Sometimes when I feel like updating myself on a certain area of digital marketing, I’ll go places like Growthackers or Zest. I can choose by topic and then pick an article that catches my eye. It’s a good way to find new experts in the field.

Tbh, by reading books and reading blogs are not enough to be learning efficiently and effectively. I would suggest a you learn from the best of the best through: 

social media (hacking into your social media account by unfollow those not helping you in terms of growth and start following how successful marketing entrepreneur, follow hashtags related to what you want to learn, or follow well known advertising or digital agency who create contents on social media), 

books (before you buy the book, search for its reviews and its brief overview, make sure it matched your interest or what you are eager to learn), 

articles in pinterest (follow relevant boards, after learning something new through other platforms, create pin and write about all knowledge in you and publish it there. Best way to learn is to teach), 


Medium (keep yourself updated on what is new in your industry)

Are you trying to remarket off your crm list?
Is it a new integration you recently set up? Hubspot wouldn’t know about where the leads came from if you just set it up, I don’t believe?
You might need to set up some additional tracking methods in GTM. Are you cross domain linking by any chance?
 

Hello



Undeerstand, I shouldn't be considered a rookie. 

Lol Dan Lok is that you?
Best. Advice. Ever
Very true
"Jab jab jab, Hook." By Gary V. Give something, earn trust, respect and then ask. Good advice.
Not always the case it mostly consists on how witty you are in promoting your products. Most of the marketers go for constantly marketing their products which makes them look like a person who is just there to sell their stuff and not help the community in any way.
True 
Truth
That is an interesting question: DM + WD for the short term, DM + DS for the future.


IMHO, the intersection is DM + WD + data visualization. Granted, data visualization can be somewhat confusing since there are a lot of options: R, Js, powerBI etc. 

If you want pure technical skills then: digital marketing, front end development and data visualization is the way to go. 


&#x200B;

Hope it helps.
I thought you have to choose second one digital marketing + Web development because both are related to each other and if you have great knowledge of web development, digital marketing is easy for you.
Fb doesn’t like more than 10% writing imo. Relevancy to targeting parameters is important too, keep in mind.
If their presence is very small, I would suggest you to start with a benchmark vs competitors. What they do, where, try to estimate budgets / audiences.. charts will be naturals to build then.
Coschedule has some templates for free that are a good starting point. Just google them
Hinge Marketing has some good stuff, but most of it isn’t free. If you are just working out a plan and need a course of action and templates, look at their offerings and see if one of the classes is in budget and has the templates and guidance you need. Sometimes its worth paying for stuff like this. 

I am not affiliated with Hinge in any way, but I have used and received value for their stuff, and it is generally at an attractive price point if you sign up, do the stuff, grab the materials, and be done. 


&#x200B;

I work for a brand that sells £££ products, the main issue with our PPC is that our target market are of the older generation - They'll just click on the first link they see. It's resulted in a high cost but the ROI makes it worthwhile. 

&#x200B;




For more content to read, I'd suggest: 

* HubSpot 
* Social Media Examiner 
* Social Media Explorer 
* Moz 
* Search Engine Journal 
* Buffer (Blog)
* Sprout Social (Blog)  

These are good entry-level resources to give you a baseline of digital advertising + other practices in this space. 

&#x200B;
I’m in a similar situation right now. I’m currently going through Hubspots free certification. They have a lot of different aspects and trainings of digital marketing that they offer all for free
You'd be well served to work for someone and learn the trade before you can get expect clients to pay for the privilege of your work.
I've been thinking about this myself. I've found a couple of post grad certificates in digital marketing that are offered by local colleges and universities in Toronto. I'm not sure whether I should pursue digital marketing or data analysis. I've read numerous articles state that digital marketing is actually a waste of time and doesn't work as well as people think it does. There are some jobs, but I wonder if this career path has a future.
I'd be cautious if I were you. Get an entry level job and learn the ropes for a year before diving in to this.


If you can, spend a bit of money on paid advertising. Even just a couple of dollars per day, if you do it well, will get things moving for you. 

Good luck!


Go with your own ideas. Create title optimized title for your videos and may use just some keywords. Keep good thumbnails. Importantly, obey youtube's copyright and community guideline rules.
..
Best of luck...🤓
Aside from the basics of tags and titles, you need to think deeper. 

Create an incentive to share the video or tag friends. (Include a prompt like "Tag a friend to see how they'd solve this puzzle"


Get people talking about your channel

Share your videos with other people in the industry. 


You'll grow rapidly if you focus on these aspects.
Congratulations! Best of the luck!

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Try to add different skills to your stack as well, like if you a have a clear weekness in areas like content marketing, SEO, PPC and social, try to learn as much as possible. 

&#x200B;

Again, best of the luck and congratulations.


Congratulations...Inspiring post. Thank you for sharing your experience with us.
Congrats! It's really nice that you can choose your path between the two. I personally really like product marketing and wish that I had this kind of option.
Thanks for the post! Good to hear! Good luck! 
This kind of posts always brings hope for the budding digital marketers out there. 

Congrats on the new position. I'm sure that you'll be the best.
Congratulations man, best thing is just start something of your own while doing the job.a website ,Facebook page group or anything that use your digital expertise.it will gradually grow while you work for this company.and one day there will be  a point where you can do your own thing for living .good luck. 
Congs!!! Just focus on the course after Google ads  training take related course, you will be learning as you are working
FOLLOW INDUSTRY EXPERTS ON SOCIAL

Also, listen to marketing podcasts and read some articles to stay ahead of trends and new areas of digital marketing. 


In your case, the most efficient way would be creating a custom report.

Here are the parameters:

* Primary Dimension: Social Source & Action

&#x200B;

If  a user clicks on your link and they close their browser tab or windows while the page is still loading, the session will not be recorded by Google Analytics if it’s code has not been loaded.

&#x200B;



&#x200B;

Hope that helps,

Shashank
Google Analytics and Server Logs use very different visitor tracking methods. Google Analytics flushes out regular visitors, bots, spiders, etc. There are arguments for both sides being better or more accurate for lots of different reasons. Personally, I would argue that when analyzing an ad campaign it's best to use Google Analytics. 
Make sure you know the actual meaning of your metrics. For example, the difference between an impression and link clicks.
Who is your supervisor? Do they set the budget? 


Here's how I did it. 


I created a list of new marketing methods, tools, services, and we'd add 1 item every other week. 

Yes and yes. People seem to forget that google ads \[search\] are tailored to people who are lower in the sales funnel thus actively searching for the \[insert your product or service here\] in order to satisfy their need.

Facebook ads are more of a promotion thus you are creating the desire. On the down side, the cost will increase over time compared to google ads.



&#x200B;

Hope it helps. 
Also, in some developing countries, Facebook has more reach than Google.
It would depend on how much you plan to spend on each channel. I find Facebook to be very much a pay-to-play platform.
Depends on the industry, the goals of the advertising, and the product. 

$20 hat? Facebook 
$20,000 industrial lift systems? Google & remarket with a visual on Facebook to website visitors. 
Also, lower budget campaigns are always better on FB in my opinion because you can't do much on Google Ads with low budgets. Your best bang for your buck in that scenario is definitely Facebook Advertising. 
Yes I run both campaigns. Yes in some of projects FB ads have worked better than Google Ads. 


Yes, but your marketing strategy should be different between the two platforms because the user behavior is completely different. 

Facebook users are in browsing mode, so marketing on Facebook needs to be more attention-grabbing to introduce or re-inforce your product/brand to potential customers. 

And in turn, people who are now familiar with your brand by seeing a Facebook ad will then navigate to Google to do more research, and that's where they'll encounter your Google ad, perhaps among other competitors. Google users are already in the market for this product or are already familiar with your brand and are shopping around, so these are higher-intent audiences than those on Facebook.

To your second question, either platform can result in higher traffic or leads - it all depends on your objective, targeting and allocated spend.
Your best bet is creating a portfolio so that you stand out when applying for jobs. 

Or coming up with social media strategies for companies that you are interested in and finding the correct email to send it to. Create a social media campaign for a company with a bad social media presence. 

You need to prove that you know what you're doing and that you can create results. 
I am sure there are many digital marketing (boutique) agencies out there looking for people.
Tons of companies are looking for cheap social media management - check out digital agencies, local shops, and other SMBs in your area or even freelancing/remote work


I urge you to pay your interns. If not hourly, a stipend. And if not a stipend, you should cover any/all expenses for commuting. Also if you don't pay them, you need to offer it for-credit or else it's illegal.
SEO quake is also good tool.
Liked it !

&#x200B;

Thanks for sharing.
Thanks Brother 
Awesome 
Super useful post. Thank you a lot!
Useful list... thanks for sharing the post...
Thank you! 
Great list! There are a few I've never heard of on here, so def going to check them out. Thanks for sharing!

Could be sales, leads, registrations... All sorts of things. 


1. Cost per lead/ Cost per impression
2. Engagement
3. Reach
4. Site visits (Event- Contact page)

Events differs based on what you are promoting. 
My manager didn’t give me any KPIs. we run a group of restaurants. i guess ours are store visits yet Facebook Likes seem to be all the rage where I am based. 
Sales should be the big one, but email optins, likes and shares are all popular too.

How could sales figure become part of marketing KPI? Easy if you're tracking sales conversions using Facebook Pixel. If you can show you're moving the sales needle with your campaigns you'll be your boss' best friend! :)
It's a shame that other jobs doesn't have an open culture as programming have.  


If you ask the same question in a programming subreddit, you would already have many mentors willing to teach you. Good luck searching for somebody!


Or, you can hire someone. I know many people that offer paid mentoring services. It's going to be pricey, but look for one that is in your target speciality (PPC, SEO, Social Media, Email, etc).
Where are you based u/darkhorse818? If you’re anywhere near Boston, I’m happy to offer any advice and mentorship I can
I’ve worked for 4 companies now doing paid search. Everything I learned was on the job experience and reading blogs. People don’t exactly want to share their secrets for success especially when it might fall under trade secrets.
Get a job at an agency that offers the specific sub-section of digital marketing you're interested in (SEO, PPC, CRO, etc.).  Then find the person in the company that's actually good at what they do (most people in agencies will be mediocre at best) and suck up as much knowledge as you can.
Look for digital marketing consultants in your town and ask if they need any admin help. 
If online coaching helps, I would be happy to help. 
What's most relevant in the future is being able to combine different relevant fields into one position, if you can major in one and minor in the other that's be great.

So long story short, you have to figure out how you want to profile yourself and then make your move. Do you want to be more of a marketer that knows about digital marketing too, or someone who knows a lot of stuff about programming and stuff and knows about marketing too.

If you enjoy writing code and solving technical problems then study computer science. Marketing degrees are definitely not going to teach you very much that you can't learn on the job. Most marketers don't even have marketing degrees. 


I'd say that one of the most important things is to be helpful for your users and potential customers. Everything else just needs to be built around it. 

If you want to be helpful, you will build good content that answers people's questions; you will use keywords as this is the only way to speak the same language as your users do; and you will be there for your potential customers through different stages of their journey.
Great question indeed.


&#x200B;

Me! Whatchu got?
I haven't run into that exact issue. I'd say that feels like a very low imp share to be successful. If your keyword set is really broad, I'd try tightening up keywords by using phrase or exact match or more specific longer-tail keywords. Or if you have funds, up the budget and see if you improve your conversion rates with increased imp share.


What type of conversions are you tracking (ecomm, leads, etc). Is the category super competitive? Have you checked auction insights to see if you are benchmarking lower than competitors? How long has the campaign been running? (Usually 2+ weeks for automated bid strategies to find their stride).

I'm guessing you are correct. It will likely get better with more budget as a general rule. There are also columns for 'search lost due to rank' and 'search lost due to budget'. Those can help confirm your suspicion before actually investing. 
Your impression share isnt the best unless you are in a market competing with ebay and amazon. 

are you still profitable at 10%
2. analytics -> funnels


&#x200B;

Hope it helps


&#x200B;

Alex Becker's Market Hero might have all this functionality built into one, but normally these are totally separate softwares.  I can say Shopify as a platform can do all this, but you'd still be using separate plugins to execute each of these functionalities.
Tools for audience building should be installed and audience targets should be built out before running any ads at all. 
Totally depends on where you are starting from.
Show them your case studies. 
Learn sales. 
As long as people opt in and have a way to opt out it should be legal.

Not sure if there are any softwares but there may be some automation tools.
You can now run ads with WhatsApp as the CTA inside Facebook.  Other than that, they must opt-in before your client can contact them.

I am using it with some clients in Spain with very good results, as a substitute for the typical chats. It is true, that here whatsapp is widely used as a form of communication

Also don’t buy a course.



People switch to new industries all the time and I bet most of them would kill to be doing so at just 25 years old! That’s still really early and with tonnes of time to catch up. Don’t rush yourself, study the aforementioned resources as best you can and see where you can get experience. You’ll be able to get a job soon enough:)

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

The competition is fierce, they have years and years ahead of you, and will gladly starve both of you to 'win' the account. Gaining clients is harder than you think, and they pay drastically less (like 95% less) than the numbers you see thrown around on this sub. 

&#x200B;

RUN THE OTHER WAY







- [/r/analytics] [Best service for doing analytics for Instagram? Want to track engagement and reach specifically over years of data.](https://www.reddit.com/r/analytics/comments/b8mkmj/best_service_for_doing_analytics_for_instagram/)

- [/r/marketing] [Best service for doing analytics for Instagram? Want to track engagement and reach specifically over years of data.](https://www.reddit.com/r/marketing/comments/b8myoa/best_service_for_doing_analytics_for_instagram/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
I'm not connected to them, but Digital Marketer has some awesome training classes for beginner and intermediate level marketers.  I think their $99 per month DM Lab+ includes access to all their main courses (just Google "DM Lab+" as I don't want anyone here thinking I'm using an affiliate link ; )
Lynda.com has a bunch of courses that are awesome. You get a certificate at the end of each that you can reference.

Also, edX.org has some great courses. A lot of them you can go through for free as “audit.” Or choose to pay for the certificate.
Glassdoor is your friend here. 

And your salary should be as much as you can negotiate!
Pinterest has a huge female following, about 80% of its users are women. So if your in the fashion industry, it would be a great way to target and very specific market. 
Yes  Pinterest can help you to bring more audience as everyone know female use Pinterest more then male. So its also a opportunity for your niche because as you told that its related to fashion shop and dresses. As compare to other social media channel, you will get more on Pinterest.

Pinterest is good for Fashion & Art niche! 
Do this things :

1.Find the No.of Users using Pinterest for fashion in your Area !!!

2. Search for Google Trends and keywords !!!

3. Use GaryVee rule of 79/21 !!! Pinterest to be a micro part of Instagram


5. Go and Talk to your parents, peer groups, friends who are using Pinterest and why do they do it so..How often ?....Cross Question them and you will know much of the insights

All The Best 
I think brand style and voice, and being consistent are critical, but I don’t know that illustration vs photo is generally more or less effective. Illustrations and animations are certainly popular these days for sure. 

I’m so sick of seeing everyone reuse the same stock photos for similar pieces, and any time you can do your own pictures, even if not as professional as “real” stock, your photos will always represent your brand best. 

I would not generally recommend mixing visual styles and metaphors though. Get your brand style figured out and run with it. 
I like the concept, but digital marketers don’t always like sharing their secrets.

If you figure out a hot new angle or niche or method for brining in sales people are obviously reluctant to share that information, because soon everyone will be doing it and there goes your competitive edge.

It’s not like the developer community where open source and sharing is the motto. It’s much the reverse unfortunately.



Just a quick preface, I'm relatively new to working professionally as a digital marketer. I work full-time for an organization helping with the digital marketing of our clients and our own company. 

>1)Do you often have questions related to your work / profession that can be answered by other people in your field? 

Most definitely

>2)How do you usually resolve these questions? Where do you go to find that information? (eg: personal contacts, whatsapp groups, organizations, or other online / offline methods) 


>3) Imagine being part of a community of other people in the same profession as you. What do you think about this idea? How helpful would this be for your career? What would you use this community for?


>4) Are you already part of such communities?  (eg: online / offline, whatsapp, organizations, colleagues, their personal networks etc) Could you please name them? 



>5) Please describe your experiences with these communities. 

I love wordcamp and the WordPress community as a whole. I find everyone to be quite helpful and willing to answer questions and share their expertise. As I don't follow the digital marketing communities there isn't much I can say about them. Stack overflow is a great source of information and I can usually find what I'm looking for within a few searches
Copywriting.
Flexibility and easylearning are also matters. 

Hard skills are seo, sem, analytics, content marketing,  understand design-based thinking,  planning, maybe  knowing how to create a quick intro video...

And a big part of this is being persuasive.

My company - NitroPay.com - is an example of the ad revenue optimization and ad tech portion. We work with SSPs and exchanges to deliver ads programmatically through header bidding. We have other tech that helps with reporting and ad quality. We do have some direct relationships with media agencies for direct ad buys - this is mostly to guarantee placements or create more custom solutions than a standard banner. 


Hope that helps. 




Time to detox your following. Hope this helps. 
Not necessarily, but it helps to keep up on trends, platform updates, etc.
Not all jobs in digial marketing will require you to be involved in much social media. However it is important for a few reasons:

-When you build buyer personas, it's easy to connect and target them on social media strategically.
-Social listening for competitors or what industry people are saying
-Paid social, getting content, resources, products, and services in front of people and building brand awareness.


But you can get more specialized if you'd rather like SEO/SEM, email marketing, marketing automation, Google AdWords, Content Marketing, analytics, or you can do a mix of all. Really depends what you like and are looking to focus on. 
I've worked in social media for about 10 years now, and there's a couple of things to remember here:



3: a coupke of people have already said this, but if you want to be on it personally, use it as a tool for learning. Follow experts in the field of digital (go check out some marketing sites, see who writes fir them, then see who those writers follow). There are still useful, interesting groups of people that you can learn from. You don't have to be putting stuff out yourself if you don't want to though.

You need to be aware of how social is doing, what’s working and engaging, new tech, otherwise your marketing will be dated. 

Use social media with the above in mind, see every post in a sense of marketing and business and how it can impact your marketing campaigns. It makes it less of a drag. :) 
I would like to suggest you Integrate push Notifications in your website so that you can re-target your users who are coming to your website by sending relevant push notifications in regular intervals. If you send informative updates and news to your users it makes them to keep updated with your updates and you also get more valuable customers. Push notifications will reduce most of your marketing budget. You will get it with less price and more benefits. I hope this will help you.

Facebook Ads: make sure there’s a Facebook Pixel installed on the site to retarget visitors. Making sure you’re targeting and retargeting correctly is crucial. I believe Facebook Blueprint is the name of their free courses (gotta pay for the certification though) 

My agencies got a few free guides I can PM you if you’re interested, but as far as general advice just be analytical. Test different copy and creative combos, see what converts best.  Same with the platforms, just see what’s working well and allocate budget accordingly. 
 

Web design is one of the most competitive verticals for search and social IMHO. I’ve been seeing the best results with bleeding edge tactics like organic marketing on emerging platforms. More traditional google ppc and SEO has proven somewhat productive but quite expensive cost per customer acquisition in my experience. I’m recommending a strategy along the lines of “do the basics well and expect to get some customers through traditional search marketing but be sure to also invest in newer channels”.
Excellent copywriters and creative marketers can crush it on Facebook and IG (managing ad campaigns). Great copy can be the difference between profitable ads and poor ones, provided everything else is executed well (targeting, video/image creative, other technical settings).

Consider it! Especially if you’ve got a great interest/knack for data driven decision making.
There is a shortage of data scientists and it is very well paid so certainly have a look into that. If you can master Power BI, for example, that’s a niche which will keep you in work and well paid.
Analytics in general is massively in demand. It’s so hard to find people and most companies (not just agencies) need analysts. Social media analytics is a good niche and might use more of your writing/editing skills. 


Find the piece you love you will be there eventually...

All the best..
I bet Alexa is a good tool to get started. 


&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
Ibisworld


Also, do you mean on a per click basis, or in total (ie words with a high combination of traffic and cost)?
Hello 

You can use LSI keyword or Google Keyword Planner . I prefer google keyword planner which provide us the descriptive information about the keyword .
Are you marketing single houses or developments? What country/area? What price point are the properties/who's your target audience?

Beware all the replies your gonna get from people trying to sell there services to you!


I have some real estate clients, and this is my method:

1.   Pay for Page Growth. I always start with realtors by paying for likes on their Facebook page. This is a worthy initial investment because it sort of marries the intention-based marketing of Google and the granularity of FB. Having an initial following will allow you to create Lookalikes of people who have already demonstrated an active interest in buying/selling.

2.   Launch $5/Day Reach Campaigns Year Around. People find realtors either by word of mouth or through convenience bias (the most recent one they remember). It's easy to launch a Reach campaign aimed at $5 per day in a specific geolocation (as increase age from 30-65) 

This method is called "Farming" and it's been around for a long while.  Target a zip code, and stay in front of that audience, you will start to build authority, trust, and familiarity.  It's the KNOW, LIKE, and TRUST factor! 




Best of luck!
It’s hard to get in market cold prospects, but I could see you having success staying top of mind with people you’ve done business with in the past and their friends. Hope that helps.
If you have a lower budget my advice is to start with Google Search Ads as you're likely to find prospects that are further down the sales funnel than you will with Facebook. In other words, with Google you can laser target your ad towards people looking for what you have to offer right now, versus on Facebook your ad will be seen by a lot of people who aren't necessarily looking for what you have to offer right now. I hope that makes sense! :)
Look into Interest & Instagram for that. I believe instagram has a lot of compilation accounts that could feature you for less than a hundred dollars and as far as pinterest goes  I am not really sure but it's definitely the right platform.
 Search engineer... That's a new one. I like it.

I'd say look to social as well. People aren't necessarily searching for your gallery or the artists involved but there's a ton of opportunity for those that haven't yet discovered the artists but end up loving their work.
Well, start with blog to bring some organic traffic from Google.
Continuous SEO , Social Media Marketing ( facebook , instagram ). You can use paid promotion option on social media . It is affordable and best to gain more followers .
Not a fan, switched off of the paid version and switching off of the free version soon full too but for retweets there should be an option under preferences that says "Use Twitter Web retweets" that would solve your one problem at least.
I think the cheapest way to get the best results would be to have a website with the basic info and to focus on GMB. Post frequently (2-4) times on GMB and have a system on place where clients who used your services get an email that ask for reviews. Just that will put them ahead of 95% of the rest of the business.
It depends entirely on the individual business. 


However - if the business does retail and they don't have an omnichannel strategy, that would be something to consider. Again, it depends on the situation.

Bottom line though, if you're seeking this kind of work, repeat business and word of mouth are huge for you, so you'll want to make darn sure you're getting the best ROAS possible.
$1000 only?

I would advise you to create quality content in your niche and promote it on social channels to get more exposure. Try posting guest posts to other quality websites as well. This is not much difficult you would be required to provide them with quality content of about 700 to 1k words and a bit charge like 50 to 100 dollars but it would provide you with good traffic and quality backlinks.
Continuous promotion is one very important if you are looking for more traffic for the business . Connect your business with social media by creating a business page . ( facebook , instagram ) . You can also use paid promotion option on Oscial Media . It is affordable and best way to get traffic . 

ALL THE BEST .
I’d focus on building quality citations and do some email/sms follow up with customers to drive reviews and referrals. Since your constraint doesn’t allow for building a good website I’d do a simple authentic site with wix or another cheap/free builder. Anything left over budget wise I’d use to push special offers and discounts with ppc on google Facebook or yelp (restaurants only for yelp).
You need to fit your marketing strategy to your target audience and the places they hang out with. If you're a doner shop you hit up Facebook with local ads etc.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
You can't really have the phrase "the best marketing strategies" and "$1000" in the same sentence lol. For $1000 I would set up a website the first month and follow up with content marketing the following months for social media exposure and allocate some of that money to boost the content -  all outsourced.
[deleted]
Depends on the type of business
[removed]
Facebook and Instagram are still on top as the best way to garner name recognition and build an audience. Just make sure you're a frequent visitor to the Insights tab to see when your audience is online and what type of content has been working the best! Depending on your business, Pinterest can be very helpful too!
For a fashion/clothing business, I would definitely recommend Instagram and Pinterest. Since your product is visual, you need to take advantage of the platforms that focus on visual aesthetics! It would be smart to create a FB and Twitter eventually to cover all your bases, but I would strongly recommend starting with Instagram and Pinterest to grow a small biz.
Instagram is becoming popular for promoting services as you can see many ads running on Instagram about all types of businesses.
FACEBOOK AND INSTAGRAM


ALL THE BEST
If it's a physical store, definitely Google My Business
What do you sell? 
So you want good quality leads that you don’t have to pay for. Won’t be a long line for that, nope should be plenty of those available...

Generating leads is not going to happen overnight. If you need leads fast, paid is the best way to get in front of people. If you can take your time, content marketing, content promotion, and social media can get in front of them overtime.

However, it all depends on what your selling too. But if anything, build buyer personas to help you. 
I hope you have a lot of patience:) I worked on the agency side with numerous luxury brands and they were very slow to adapt to new technology, strategy, etc. It was very much an old school mentality. 


To add to that point, use the damn data we collect for you in the campaigns you pay us for. I can’t tell you how many thousands of emails sat in the database unused after we would run campaigns. 

That’s all that comes to mind now, best of luck!
Dont list it as a gap... you WERE working. List each company or website name. List the results on that just like a regular job.
Which city are you in? 

Usually best practice not to tell employers about personal decisions that affect your professional experience unless it's for the positive - it's not their business to know about.
I love this conversation. I’m a certified social media manager and I’m actively pursuing SEO training through OMG machines. I’m interested in your journey and interviewing you. If that’s ok with you, let’s connect
First, you should have 6-12 keywords not just 1, so think of variations or use the keyword planner to help you out.

You can use radius targeting in the location settings. Then use broad match modifier +school +management +software for your keyword to show for both 🙂
There are tons of proven templates, so I wouldn't say it's a "skill" you need to practice.  But you will have to run some tests to find the ones that work best for your store / business / product / offer / etc.

In these situations I would go heavily manual then using  a lookalike audience out of 1-2k emails of subscribers.

Best!
May be you are not targeting the right way otherwise Facebook ads are incredibly powerful. I would suggest you to try interest based targeting.
Are you trying to run ads to just the Newsfeed, or letting FB auto-select the placements?

&#x200B;

Just had a (semi) similar issue, and a well known expert suggested we let FB auto-select the placements.  I was hesitant given we want newsfeed traffic, but it ended up working.  They're smart enough to know where your ads belong based on the creative.
Facebook estimates are just that... what is the max people they could reach if everyone logins to Facebook that day. This rarely happens. If you don't have targeting that is limiting you then it's the fact your market isn't on Facebook everyday I would say.

Are you running Facebook because you have maxed out on Google and Bing? If not, I would look at Google and Bing first because you can get traction faster then on Facebook for SaaS product.



Is your software B2B or B2C? Or both?
It's possible in MailChimp, you just have to make a new list/newsletter
You’ll have to make sure they opt into your different newsletters! Or when the sign up and confirm they have to select the newsletter they want to join. 
Can you set up another list to send out the 3-4 once off emails? That way subscribers will be able to unsubscribe from the second list.

You can use a tool like Zapier to subscribe a user from your main list automatically to a new list. 
It’s possible to have subscription preferences at different “email groups” (e g newsletters, sale emails) in Eloqua. That way if they unsubscribe from newsletters, they can still receive sale emails for examples. You just segment at subscription preferences every time you send a campaign. Hope this helps. 
Do you have an outline for client calls? You could have an outline, copy it for each call, talk the clients through it, and fill it out when you're on the call. Weekly updates should be as short and sweet as possible, so performance data may be all they need. 

&#x200B;

A basic call outline would be like: 

1. Major Updates/Events
2. Results for everything - Google, FB, Bing, page/test results
3. Issues with anything 
5. Ask for questions/concerns

That would cover most of everything and should allow you to confidently walk through and complete a quick process with them each week. 
Check out the book ‘Traction’ and use the “L10 Meeting Agenda.”

There is an easy to find youtube explainer and a template on the Traction site. 

Build better rapport, the best calls are the ones you talk about things outside of business for majority of the time then address the business on the end. Put the client at ease and don't make this type of call a chore. Following up on their life events means you're caring about them in other ways than just services. You are the professional and they're looking to you for your advice. Give them options but make it clear what you recommend the best next steps are. 
Don’t forget that client calls only have to be as long as they need to be. In my situation I’m the client, and i have a 30 minute call with the agency once a week. However, one week it’ll just be my account directors (quick chat on performance but mostly how the account is running, what we’ve spent, outstanding actions from each side) and the alternate week it includes the full agency team (in this case the PPC team) and they run through performance, upcoming actions, learnings and testing they’re doing. Sometimes it’s 20 minutes sometimes it’s 45. But the rule is we discuss what we need to then go. We obviously chat breeze to begin with to “build rapport” but there’s not pressure from either side. 

Also, once a month I have a 90 minute call where we deep dive into ongoing projects, testing, deliverables etc but they also talk me through industry and google updates which is super useful for me. Could be something to add into your agenda. 

Lastly, don’t be afraid to ask how they find the calls. I ask my agencies all the time if it’s a valuable use of our time and if it’s not we switch it up. It’s actually how we got to the alternate week/team structured calls. 

Hope this helps



Be courteous of everyone’s time, give yourself enough time to get through everything and have a Q&A at the end or throughout. Whatever works best.

I would start by making it 30 seconds
For LinkedIn when you say main page do you mean a company page or someone's feed? 

For LinkedIn post native. External links dont do as well in the algorithm. Add subtitles too as not everyone will want to be use sound if they are at work. 

For non-ads, use the native upload feature in those platforms instead of linking. Encourage comments, because the social algorithms will keep this in front of more people. 

The video is too long to use as an ad, and without knowing the content I suspect is unlikely to engage as a first contact via ads or promoted content. It needs to be stage 2 or 3 in the funnel, with a much shorter version or other more direct ad unit which will lead to either the full video or a page explaining why the full video should be watched.

Blogs are great for search engine based content, vlogs are better for user based content. You specialize in SEO, eCommerce is a great niche - does your brand rank for relevant niche keywords already (like "SEO for ecommerce")? eComm is a really popular niche, so even Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn, and YouTube could be useful. Share your content! Social links and traffic to the site, plus brand awareness.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

You can also try to build your personal, professional, or local network. 

&#x200B;

Is your website conversion based? Directly asking for emails (or offering newsletter), clear places to set up a call with you, clear descriptions of your services, etc. Have you tested landing pages?

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Actually, the main difference between social media marketing and all kind of marketing on Google(SEO, AdWords)  is this. 

&#x200B;

If you want to find your niche ( clients)  I think you should create a community and I know it is not very easy for brands. It takes time but the better way for long-term marketing is to create a community on social media on your niche.

&#x200B;


If you compare with Google, definitely social media gives you more useful insight into the potential clients. 

There are lots of tools on Facebook to find your clients and even Facebook ads are very handy. And also Twitter, some Twitter management tools gives you very specific info about the users. I think this is the right ways to find your clients. 

&#x200B;
show your value. Find a local organization that could use your help and show them how you can be of help.
I'm a digital marketing manager for an African based telecommunications app. Our main office is in London though so I can't help you get hired unless you're here. But if you have any social media information or a website / portfolio online, I'd be happy to share it around. 
Why would you move for the same amount of money? Managerial always pays better than grunt work. Tell them to up their bid or GTFO.
I don't have anything other than anecdotal evidence, but analyst positions seem really hot right now. I think there's a future on that path, especially as AI gets better at running PPC for us! 

[deleted]

Hope that helps.

Shashank
There are several tools that you can use. Can't say which one is the best. Depends on what you like.

&#x200B;

However, here are a few to consider:

&#x200B;

2. Project Management tools: MS Project, Trello, Monday. Try the ones that offer free option and see which one you like.


&#x200B;

Hope that helps

Shashank

Hubspot, Tasks, and Excel. 
While you can use primary research tools and various other modern day analytical tools to track activities - let's face it, tracking offline marketing activities is much tougher. Example of offline marketing activities - Hoardings, Newspaper ads, Magazine ads, Posters, Direct Mailers, participation in trade fairs, exhibitions, etc. Unlike Online marketing where the data is readily available for analysis, in offline the biggest challenge is to find ways to gauge the campaign's effectiveness. 
Connect your site with Google analytics and use google docs. 
Focus on results and deliverables as much, if not more than what your responsibilities were. 
I found that I had more requests for in-person interviews when I specifically asked for ways they'd like to improve, and responded with personal work experiences/results that matched those situations. 



Talk about some special projects you worked on

In addition, as others mentioned, focus on results and deliverables. For example, don't only say that what you did, but mention what your work accomplished:

 \* Worked hand in hand with ad agency to create and execute native, display, streaming audio, video, search and paid social strategy. 

Faith on your self.

Be confident.

No Nervousness.

Then start describing your experience. Start from the very first point.point to point describe.then your recent achievement.

&#x200B;
Why you are important, not what you did.
What are you considering a conversion? Only a store visit? For geofencing I consider a call or any sort of click on the landing page (eg directions) to be a conversion. Most of the big companies track all those actions. 
What program are you using for geo-fencing?
How about you start with an analysis, a good way to prepare a marketing plan is to know where the brand is in terms of marketing or social presence. A competitors analysis can also help, this way you can see what your competitors are doing and try to come with a plan.

Based on the analysis you can work with the marketing department and use their plan to prepare a digital plan.
The biggest issue I see here is there's not strategy with a 'Why?' So what if you get 150 new likes on your Facebook page, what does that actually do to achieve short/long term goals?

If you can suck it up and use it as a learning experience, and realise that not all marketing internships are like this, you’ll pull through.

FB likes don't = ROI. Your manager is an idiot.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Good luck! 
I've worked on the freelancer and agency side (agency now) and did tons of eComm, hopefully I can add some insight. 

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Freelancers are a bigger risk but a lot cheaper - if you think you can handle the slight increased risk of lower quality or less reliable work, it's probably worth it at your revenue level to go with freelancers (unless your expenses are well under control and you have more room). You'll probably be best off getting a few different ones to cover all of what you need vs. trying to find one that can do it all. On the other hand, one agency will probably be able to take care of everything, including the strategy.

&#x200B;


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/DigitalMarketing) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Hey there. I see you're having trouble with the AutoModerator on here. 

I started as a freelancer and am now scaling my operation into an agency model - I'd be willing to chat with you about options and see if we would be a fit to work together in any capacity.

If we're a fit, great, and if not, that's fine too. 

If we aren't a fit, I'd be happy to point you in the right direction.

Thoughts?
What year is it?

I would be a little bit wary of this approach and might even try to walk them through why a % of ad spend or even a flat monthly fee would be a better model.

Example: if you get paid $0.10 per click and drive 100,000 clicks, but none of them convert, you still get $10,000 and now the company doesn't have any leads (bad for them). Alternatively, if you get paid $10 per lead, and you are only able to drive 20 leads that month, your gross earnings are only $200 (bad for you).

I would walk them through a hybrid approach where you set a monthly or quarterly goal: set your monthly fee slightly below normal and then say "if I can surpass LY's clicks (or leads, whichever is the actual metric they mean), I will get an additional $X per click/lead."

This approach would lower the risk on your end, but give them confidence that you are still motivated to try and perform.


What happens when you spend $100k on your billing account and they only get them 4 leads?

Sounds like you're putting yourself on the hook for the entire budget if they don't like the results. 
Really not my area of knowledge but an interesting idea. How would you define "lead"? I like the transparency but feel like the client would see you as "click machine". 
Wow. If they want to pay you per click, jump on that. That's the dumbest method of measuring value. 

Set your metric to convert whether it be clicks, landing page views.



There is an element here about your relationship with the client, and your goals with them. 

Are you really looking to partner, and share risk and reward results? 


Are you looking to fleece them for every penny you can for however long (or short) they are a customer?

  

&#x200B;

As for measuring the value of a click or lead, you can use the 'reverse demand waterfall' technique to tell you how many clicks and leads they need, and how much they are worth. When you look at how much they cost, you can see immediately what is a good or bad use of those funds!
[removed]
Every employer defines the roles different. None of these are good for a new employee in the industry.


Strategists - does the research and helps identify who we are targeting and why and how that group will convert (short version)

Consultant - can do all of these or none depending on the level on consulting.


Feel free to PM if you have any other questions.
Usually all the roles are played by one and that is digital marketer. A digital marketer is a consultant because He/She gives advice or consult the clients about benefits of digital marketing and Digital marketing strategies are also prepared by digital marketer. In the end, Digital marketing activities are also handled by Digital marketer. In most companies this is the scenario but you can find in few companies that they assign these roles to different people.

&#x200B;

This are different names used by companies based on their internal structure, strategist position is for someone who is hands on guy, while manager would manage team of strategist and manage the risk/reward generated by their work.

While consultant is normally external who i not employed on payroll he is paid for the hours or task done.  But as said it depends on companies to companies how they read and define titles.
As a few people have said those titles are a little more experienced than a beginner.  However, titles are so personal to the company that I rarely look at them (except to see if the word marketing or digital might be in there somewhere.)

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

And don't worry too much about the "digital" title. There are a few specialist titles for beginners like Social Media Assistant etc. Depends what your speciality (if you have one) is and most marketing jobs have at least an essence of "digital" these days. 
There’s a whole range of skill sets under digital, and different career tracks. 



There’s also the data track of DM, where people look into using data to improve marketing initiatives, through data mining, research, visualization and analysis. Career tracks: data analyst.

Finally, there’s the digital generalist, which are usually the jacks of all trade, with experience across the above mentioned functions within DM. They are the ones who tend to end up as all rounded digital managers/directors in smaller digital setups, or as a business director.

Depends on your interests, there are various trainings to dive into. Good luck!! 
I think HubSpot's Inbound Certification will give you a good place to start. It's free and it gives you some of the main elements of digital marketing to get you grounded. Like SEO, content marketing, email marketing, social, etc. You'll be exposed to a few things and you can see what you start to gravitate towards.

Good luck!


Good email marketing (nurture funnels) are always in demand. 
I recommend looking for an entry-level role at a small business or startup. Then you'll have the opportunity to dapple in a lot of those elements and see which one you like best as you develop your career. 
if you are a beginner you have to learn something about digital marketing like SEO  and most important part that how to get traffic to your offers and i am frankly saying you have to give some hours to learn this as a Newbie but after learning everything there are lot of chance to make your Future In Digital Marketing. There are lot of companies giving freelancers jobs so you can make Some Revenue From Home but for this you have to expert on your Niche and come with confidence on digital marketing Field if you will success No one can stop to fly in sky and it will Rain of Revenue 


My point is, there is definitely a human element to FB advertising if you can get past the bots and get a real person to realize you’re not trying to scam anyone. 

Best of luck to you. 


 increase your follower   
or earn money online type pitch.   

It feels like this probably falls foul of the MLM algorithm. Basically the "Get rich quick" type language. Facebook are usually zero help. Is there a landing page attached or just a video? 

&#x200B;


1. Setup
2. Managment Monthly
3. Budget Monthly



&#x200B;




&#x200B;

2. Monthly retainer for campaign management

The account and Campaign setup cost is for the first time as you will be doing the majority work initially and the I would recommend charging 50 percent of the monthly budget as a retainer. In your case it will be

If the client spend $1000 every month then 50 percent of it will be $500

You will be sending $1000 invoice for the first month and then it will be $500 every month. If the budget goes up your monthly invoice will go up too.

The percentage could be different for different clients.

Thanks

Is this for the paid test?
Hello there, 

Greetings!!

&#x200B;

Digital Marketing is a good course if you have any future goal regarding JOB, FREELANCE or BUSINESS. Every course in DM is important and connected with each other. SEO & SMM both are important, first SEO is to be done in website while promoting your website using SMM.   
Both SEO & SMM are easier to practise and helpful for promoting your blog/website on the internet.  
I would definitely learn SMM. There are many agencies and in house companies hiring SMM experts. SEO is important for web developers. So, if you plan on developing websites in html5 I believe it’s obligatory to learn SEO. Otherwise, SMM will give you an edge and possibly lead to a profession.

In digital marketing the goal is to be knowledgeable of different platforms. There are three types of platforms (Social, Digital, and Search). Social platforms are: Facebook Ads, Snapchat Ads, Twitter Ads. In your case, digital platforms will be running YouTube or Display off Google Ads. Finally, the main search platform is Google Ads as well. But, bing and yahoo have their own search platforms as well.

Some very high level concepts for SMM to get you started. There are two main cost metrics (CPM and CPC.) CPM is cost per thousand impressions. CPC is cost per click. The main cost metric for social and digital platforms tend to be CPM (though, sometimes CPV cost per view is applicable). For search, CPC is the main cost metric since you (the advertiser) is only charged based on clicks.

Good luck! Enjoy the process.
SEO gives results after weeks and months and if you want instant results then go for SMM
Social Media Marketing will be a lot easier to learn.  
check ur messages
Seo and smm both are different 

I think yes... But why you run ads on snapchat... Which type of ads you run ??
Being a catalyst for change is important, but the same companies who can achieve that have the resources to effectively react to trends at a moment’s notice too. This is where agencies often choose to specialize in one thing and attempt to be the best at it. After full maturity, they’re usually then acquired by a large agency or holding company for their capabilities (should they be successful in establishing them). 
If you're starting from scratch, there is a lot of good online content out there to start to understand the landscape (HubSpot, Sprout Social, The Optimist, Neil Patel...). But, if you're really looking to establish a career, I  recommend taking some in-person courses for your resume and to really hone your skills. BrainStation has a great digital marketing program for example. (Disclosure: I work with BrianStation)
I took a lot of courses through Lynda, and if you leverage them properly, they can take you a long ways.
Please pm with the keywords you target and your url, I think this time the keyword your are aiming is more competitive than what you usually targeted, you have to build a real backlinks strategy! 
[removed]
Yes, you can do so. 
Try to land some freelance jobs on websites like upwork or other freelance platforms. You could also make posts in Facebook groups targetting Amazon/Ebay Sellers. If you have a certain size as an Amazon seller, you soon wanna expand your ads to google and other search engines. Hope I could give you  some inputs. :-)
In Salesforce, we use specific Inquiry Source, Inquiry Source Detail, and then also use Campaigns. We tend to get pretty specific with them and then group them at high level by Referral Source. And that would be things like Internet, Word of Mouth, Outreach, etc. 
You can get a certain number of emails per month free with mailjet dot com. Hope that helps. 
Mailchimp is free as long as your subscribers are not too many, you can have different styles of mails when browsing the templates section.
MailChimp is free up to a certain number of subscribers. You can also search for "MailChimp alternatives" if that doesn't suit you.
Just out interest, why would you need so many variants if you're using marketing automation? Surely you can build a single template and pull in the various products at point of send?

...or even at point of open based on tracked behaviour.
There’s a pretty large document out there with a variety of ad stats updated February 2019.

Whatever you’re interested in specifically just add benchmark to that and search away.

Examples:
The answer is always reddit lol

Jk, good question tho
Are you staying you are loosing your traffic source / medium information because of your cookie policy popup? That shouldn't happen. Fix that and you've answered your own question :)

Before branding comes into spotlight. Ask yourself a question.


If you'd sufficient firepower to create a huge impact (Disruptive force) within an industry's ecosystem, this is how your brand gets the initial breakthrough in becoming a distinctive icon.

However, if it's nothing unique, get crunch into pieces by the big entities within the industry.
Distinctive and iconic are two very different things. To be iconic, you need a long history of providing customers with value. To be distinctive, you just need a differentiator and way to stand out.  
SEMrush for competitive research
I use SpyFu for this, I like the UI more than SEMrush
Semrush!
I'm not sure if I understood what you mean but I Ahrefs can be used to tell which keywords are targeted by which site and which ad and which landing page. 
No doubt, SEMRush is the best tool for this.
https://www.reddit.com/r/DigitalMarketing/comments/b3tyvn/considering_career_change_to_dm/ej2spk8/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app

Read this comment!

My professional opinion when I typically hire for my team is experience trumps certifications unless they are entry level. Which you aren’t. I don’t mean for this to sound like a dumb or snide-ish question but have you applied to more management positions where you manage juniors who will do the day to day ppc or seo work? 

Also Which city are you in? Happy to connect you with some recruiters I know if they are in your area. 
My advice to you would be



3. Read step by step guides on how to build a specific marketing campaigns by searching on Google

4. Get yourself familiared with tools like Google Analytics Google Ads and Google Webmaster and how to set them up with the website

5. Implement all the things you learn everyday on the business you're promoting

6. Learn the art of creating the ad copy and doing keywords research




Client side opinion from my own experience: 


Larger companies want to know the key numbers and how you can add value.


Bigger companies have heard all that shit a bazillion times. And the people you are talking to are a bit more savvy , so the black box of magic routine has no power.

Pitch a plan

Work the plan

Show results
Any chance I could bother you for a bit more info on your toolset and how you put it together? 
Answer this clearly:

- Why you
- Prove it
Play up their pain points (personally and as a business).  




Competitor research. If you attack a certain industry you are doing audits of 10-15 of those companies right?  If a few of them are doing it well already (either with you or independently) talk about that and evoke jealousy or the FOMO on your lead.   

I like to take their presumed keywords (usually their "services offered") and compile a 10-15 word keyword ranking report to show them exactly where they are using FAT Rank (nifty little Chrome extension).   


Also, I'll DM you an SEO audit tool that we made that will give you a \~20 page report so you can look like you did a fuckton of research.
Lastpass on Chrome and smartphone?
I use 1Password and have for years.  Wonderful program.  

Without knowing more, not sure anyone on reddit can help. 

You’re a coordinator now and you mention that you’re doing well in your interviews. Do your skills and experience match up to what the company wants?

You’re confident you’re doing well - are you sure you’re not coming off as *too* cocky? That can mean personality isn’t a fit. 

You can always ask the interviewer why you were rejected. Sometimes they’ll actually tell you which can help determine what the points are. 

Lastly, jobs are not easy to find. Many people will go into 20 interviews and not get a job offer. I think 3 is a very small sample size without knowing more about your experience and the company’s needs. 


I'm hoping it's because a few big projects are starting all at the same time and will be manageable after this.  


At the stage of do I ride it out and tone down my sales/advertising? Do I try and get rid of the clients who are paying least? Or do I hire & train and look to grow?  


Anyone who's been through the above would appreciate any advice.  


Torn between scaling up and building a proper 'agency' or having the freedom I currently do (or did a few months ago haha) as a one-man-band!



A lot of agencies suggest clients pull in another agency to do this for them when they could be in control and taking a piece of the spend. 
Absolutely. 








I've found that bigger clients are happy to pay more, require less client management and understand things take time. Smaller clients eat time, constantly complain and are apt to jump ship mid stream. 


We have minimum standards that need to be met for us to take you on as a client - adequate budget, time and evaluation of their company where we believe we can actually help them. It was learned the hard way but we say no to more people than we say yes to. 
Are guys US based?
Have you considered selling clients? 
Yes, it happens from either being too busy or the quality of the lead doesn't make a good fit (timeline, budget, etc) as your schedule gets filled. Sometimes, while difficult, you have to say No. 

&#x200B;

You can always partner with another digital agency to share/sell your unwanted leads and vice-versa. That might be an excellent way to handle some of these situations.
Choose an industry you'd like to enter first, a great way of making a fist impression is going up to local businesses with incomplete/absent Google maps listings and helping them with a quick Google my business account. That way you'll give them a taste of what you can offer and establish value.
Why don't you make some slide presentations about how big companies are dealing with social media and how you can help peoples business with your ability and skills on social media marketing. 

&#x200B;

It would definitely help.
Not to be mean, but who do you think you can help? Do you have professional experience helping these sorts of companies?
Lead with value.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Then follow up with a phone call.

Nothing. Follower count doesn't matter.

Teach local businesses that and use the conversation to open doors.
is it a push or pull campaign?  I wouldn't want 4-5 emails from some company that has scraped my contact from a database or linked in.  one email should be enough and if Im interested (ie: pass the 1st CTA, then email me the next 2-3 emails).

&#x200B;



\- text option of email




\- optimised for most clients



\- The holiday can be a way to run special offers, which you would not run otherwise - either big discounts, or other freebies. 

\- Depending on what you are selling, and alignment with the holiday, you should see an uptick in engagement and transactions around the holiday. The engagement can then be used for retargeting later. 

\- Brand awareness would be hard to track, and would be on a longer time horizon anyway. But a few repeat purchases will of course contribute to brand awareness and recall. 

&#x200B;

PM me if you want to discuss specific case for your startup. 

Hubspot and Google ads and analytics 
Not free, but check out **RedditGuru.com**

Your mind will get blown 
Check backlinko for SEO


I signed up for a 30 day trial on audible and downloaded Garry V’s “Crushing it” book. It’s a trove of information about social media marketing that I find fascinating. 
Well there are plenty of online courses for Digital Marketing, but as you are asking for Free courses, so the best destination would be YouTube. You can find lot of free tutorials and videos there on Digital Marketing.
Hubspot, Udemy, Academy for ads and YouTube ...etc are the best websites to learn digital marketing...

- [/r/marketing] [Agency owners - how did you build your team? & please critique my plan.](https://www.reddit.com/r/marketing/comments/b2zzvf/agency_owners_how_did_you_build_your_team_please/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*


Agencies try to sell you on the variety and breadth of work. It's true, but it is also super shallow. You can never deep dive. You're always on a time crunch, client makes all the decisions, and client controls all of the access.

I'll pass on the advice that I got from a couple of marketing mentors with 20-40 years of experience. 

1. In house pays better, is more secure, and may be better for your long-term career track.
2. Agency provides more "reps" and broader exposure. I've heard that the more typical path is from agency to in-house (get experience then get money/security).

To me, the trump card is always your happiness. If learning and working in an agency provides you with more happiness than your in-house gig, then why not? Good luck, I hope happiness is what you find in your new job!
There are a ton of free data studio templates available online you could look into. That way all the setup is done you just plug in your info. We've found data studio to be a great (and free) solution for our client reporting. 
Save Big, Ski Bigger this Easter


&#x200B;

I prefer the top one, personally.
who
Bill is an SEO OG. Not the most exciting speech I’ve ever seen, but he’s smart, hardworking and comes to accurate conclusions about effective ways to promote a business online. I’ve seen him speak at a conference or two in the past.
Do you mean Bill Slawski?
[removed]
You should rather seek for manager skills like presentation, pitching ideas, team building and leading.

If marketing manager means seo and cpc skill then its not manager.
It sounds like you have the communications/advertising side covered, but recognise that marketing can be a very broad topic/role. 

In a management role it’s expected that you have the ability to understand and measure your market-size, to analyse your competition, to define the positioning of your products against them, the messaging that you will use to communicate benefits to the customer, and then be able to put together a strategy that will give measurable results and can be implemented by others e.g a sales team. 

And then you may have to take ownership of the website, social communication, advertising, events, training of the team etc.

How much your precious experience will be relevant/used depends a lot on the size of the company and how digital they are really.


There are several organizations. But if you're looking for an online course that you can follow at self pace and also, get a certificate- Udemy, EdX, Lynda, coursera have some pretty awesome courses.Check out the curriculum of the various courses on these sites and opt one as per your requirement. 
If you are in the UK, IDM or CIM certificates are highly recognisable. 
Hadn't realised SocialBlade had those Insta insights thanks!
You have no idea how much I appreciate you for even thinking about doing this post! I just landed my first big gig & this post was exactly what I needed! Thank you!

It's just easier to make some good music that people want to listen to instead of sounding like every other trash rapper out there.


My main tips. Avoid agencies. They don't care about you. Avoid anyone who started an FB ads company in the last 12 months. They're not ready for you. 

Try to find someone local and affable who you can meet often. Work with them closely to test out your marketing message, platform and strategy. Alternatively, learn it all yourself and outsource execution to experienced offshore designers and campaign builders.  

If your product is as incredible as you say, you need to focus on testing creative and testing your platforms and targeting. Obvious stuff but no need to go wildly complex at the early stages.


We see $25 CPA with FB alone. $18 FB+Search and $10-15 CPA for Search+Social+Display.

When you cultivate the entire marketing funnel you begin to let each platform play to its strengths. 


Depending on the industry/keywords, there’s not much you can do about CPC if you want to show up. And your CPA ties to CPC pretty heavily. 

CPA will depend on so many numbers and more info needed to provide you with a more structured approach and strategy :) Cheap lead gen products are quite easy to sell, if you have the hook and targeting set up correctly. 

Do you already have a list, or is it a completely new venture? How much traffic is going through your website at the moment? What are your current activities in terms of marketing? 
Is the product highly visual, or Instagram can be a waste of money?

Tell me a bit more about the product and it will be easier to suggest a solution. 

I don't think it is possible to create editable templates on canva as once you save or download it it will be in an uneditable format. The only way would be to create a template and share with them to edit it on your canva account, as far as I can see, which is not practical. You may be better off with Google Docs, here you can create documents and download a link to share the live document with others. 

My opinion is that your slowdown is a leading indicator of the recession to come shortly. Of course adding to the top line would help, but I would probably be looking more to cut costs and strengthen relationships with existing clients if I was you. 
You don't target on facebook with keywords. 
Can you elaborate on this? Waaaay too broad. What kind of products are you talking about? 
I've done my fair share of podcast sponsorships and advertising for a B2B software company. 



It will generate some leads and website visitors, but it probably won't give you crazy results overnight. 

We paid I think something like $3500 per season (about 6 episodes).

Anyhow, ive got some tips if you want to make the most out of it: 

1. Find relevant podcasts in your niche. 

Don't go with general big-audience podcasts like NPR, Joe Rogan or American Life unless your product is for that specific audience. A podcast with 2000 - 3000 listeners will probably yield better results than a podcast with 2m listeners. The reason behind it is RELEVANCY. 

--------

2. Create a specific landing page with the shortest URL possible - and have a unique offer. 

When the podcast host announces your offer, you DON'T want them to say "Visit company.com for more information on bla bla". 

On your landing page, just have the headline "Free offer for [Podcast name] listeners", and then have your form or button or schedule or whatever right below it. 


Your logo is probably in your header anyway so don't worry about visitors thinking they're on the podcasts own website. 

--------

3. Don't create scripts, create recommendations

If you create a script for your podcast host, it will sound forced. The best thing is to let the podcast host just wing it, and help him or her with some guidance. 

Also, make sure your offer ties into whatever the episode is about if possible. 


Listen to how Andrew Warner does it on Mixergy - that kind of advertising style generated the best results for us. 

---


Try to set a goal in advance. For example, if lead generation is your #1 prio, make sure to have a number for GEC - "Good Enough to Continue". 

If you want leads, then tell your advertiser that if you get 50 leads during the first season, you'll continue the sponsorship in the next season.

If not, then just go to the next podcast and try something new. 

This puts pressure on both you and the podcast host to continually communicate and switch things up when your ads don't work as expected. 

This kind of deal also gives you down-side protection, and is ideal if you can work directly with the podcast host and nothing through an agency. 

-----

5. Market the podcast 

You need to help spread the word for the podcast and the episodes you sponsor. Don't think for a second it's something you can just set and forget. 

A podcast sponsorship is a collaboration, not a delegation.

-------

Hope this gave you some good insight, tips and pointers. 

Keep in mind that the episodes you sponsor probably will circulate on the web for years to come, even if the podcast shuts down.

None of the estimates are reliable. When bidding manually, I bid higher for exact than phrase due to relative conversion rates I’ve historically experienced.
Keep in mind that phrase match will show up for your phrase plus other words in the beginning or end.  “Bridal show pictures” would trigger your phrase match of bridal show.

Exact match will show up only for your phrase. It will include close variations as well as different order of words. “Bridals shows” would trigger your exact match keyword.

I recommend you look into the search terms triggering your KWs. Find those that are irrelevant to tour objective, and add them as negatives.
hi, they are just estimates only. 

Check out Centro if you’re just getting it going. 
What is the niche?


Secondly making that business a brand in the relevant industry should be your primary target. Focus on social media marketing and also market the products as a brand.
I'm not American so it might be different there. Isn't the point of an internship that you learn off someone experienced?

How are you an intern yet you're the only one who knows digital marketing?

&#x200B;
Hubspot, Google AdWords, Google Analytics and Facebook Blueprint have free online classes. Hubspot has a particularly good one on Email Marketing. You can also train online to be Marketo or Salesforce certified, which is somewhat operational but in demand. If you’re more technically inclined, look into job descriptions for data analysts and start building yourself a learning plan. There are so many options!

I agree w the earlier comment to follow what interests you. Start there. Then once you’re in an entry level position, you can see the other digital jobs and get a better sense of which path or channel you want to pursue. 
If you've browsed this subreddit, you'll undoubtedly found the 1M+ threads on getting started. Not being rude, just want you to understand what you're really doing in digital marketing: 

&#x200B;

Create content (make a blog, youtube channel, etc.) and start teaching yourself how to market it (social media, SEO, etc) using free educational resources online. Stay dedicated and consistent, marketing usually doesn't pay off immediately, it takes time. And/or get an entry level job in marketing.


1. SEO
2. SMM
3. Email Marketing
4. Content Marketing  


it is up to you where do you want to see yourself and whats your objective.  


Hope this helps

I am in digital marketing but I don't care about each of these things. Find out which topic is interesting to you before you buy a book.

Also, if you have the time and are interested in writing you could start a blog. The great thing about a blog is that it touches many of the digital marketing topics. 
HubSpot and Google AdWords & Analytics. Start there, they have free certifications too. Also, read and listen to Neil Patel, you'll learn a lot and where the industry is going. 

Digital marketing covers a lot of areas, find what interests you the most and focus on those areas. 
Very first step is 

1. Create your website. 
2. Write some blog post
3. Try to rank them with good content. 
You can practice using real clients' GA accounts. I'd go through and make inferences from the data (this is assuming you've already done a solid discovery/ROI/custom call with the client to find out what the KPIs & growth they want to see). Then based on what we know about consumer behavior, industry metrics, local market data, etc. bring them info that matters to them to make recommendations to continually optimize their strategy... I'm not sure there is a course for that, it seems like it would be more of a critical thinking skill and is based on having a good grasp on what the client wants to do. There are so many metrics you can pull but to analyze every single thing is boring and exhaustive and won't necessarily address what the true goal is for your clients. There are probably articles online somewhere regardless where you can find tips and tricks. Good luck! Please excuse my brevity, I'm on mobile.
What is facebook?
Paid social questions about targeting, ad group setup, etc.  Are you certified in FB Blueprint.  Organic social is largely useless for brand and revenue objectives. 
Examples of how you have led a team, and how you will generate leads/revenue 
Benchmark KPIs
Give me an example of a recent conflict you faced and how you resolved it...




I’ve recruited for a Social Media Manager role in my team recently and the things that the successful candidate demonstrated were:
- he was ready to challenge us on what we were currently doing on social media
- he brought lots of examples of his previous experience that was relevant to the role.

Do the above and you’ll be in with a chance. Good luck.
Definately if will not be....what is this that...
Thank you for the insight!

Tell Me about Yourself or some variation. 
If you have to ask I question whether you’re qualified to do it
“Just because Google says you should do it, doesn’t mean you should do it.” 

Talking to customers... those always bring the AHA moments. Or customer success if that is not an option.

I've seen employee advocacy time and time again get implemented at companies spending $1m+ paid, and it is a great complement to augment paid with earned media, boost everything you mentioned, and lower your CPL overall. 

&#x200B;

Cheers
Fully optimizing video creative for mobile. Scroll down in this link for the Wells Fargo example with ways we did that & the results. 

I see non-optimized videos on social all the time and I can guarantee it’s affecting their campaign performance. 

https://m.facebook.com/business/news/building-video-for-mobile-feed
Bump!
that I should be charging more.


1) reading customer reviews or forums/groups of the target market to learn their lingo, and their pain points and desires. Someone else said talk to customers so same idea

2) stop going for mainstream interest targeting. Instead of an interest like “golf” where people could follow but not be golfers, target interests that only a golf enthusiast would follow

3) don’t overthink things - sometimes I feel like I could be doing more for a campaign (I guess there’s always more you could do) or I feel like there’s optimizations that I’m not aware of, but the overall process is pretty simple. For example I went through a few courses recently and a lot of the experts taught me everything that I already knew, the basics, and it helped me reaffirm to not overthink the process 


 Employment & Recruiting Marketing

Influencer Marketing

 PPC Management

 Personalized Web Content

 Infographics & Motion Graphics

 Voice Search Content Optimization

 Conversion Rate Optimization

 Page Speed Optimization

 508 Compliance Design

 Online Review Management

 Content Marketing Services

&#x200B;
Add Brand Marketing as well
The expert Digital marketing services bring targeted prospects from different online platforms. They are Social media sites, referral websites and other platforms. some important areas are...

Social Media Optimization

Social Media Marketing

PPC Management Services

Facebook Advertising

Linkedin Advertising

Twitter Advertising 

Youtube Advertising

Email Marketing

Content Marketing  

Web Design

App Design
The main thing is correct apostrophe usage. 
One of the most important things agencies look for is attention to detail. I would have someone review your resume. There are a lot of grammatical and spelling errors in this post so perhaps some exist on your resume.
You’ve applied to over 190 entry level marketing jobs on indeed?? There has to be some issue we can find. I agree with the other poster, you should have someone look over your resume. 

Where are you located? 
I would investigate reputable agencies near you, do some solid research. Then either find the decision makers and add / flick them a message on linkedin, call them or just show up to their office!
There should be jobs out there which don’t require experience to start entry level.
Call around town and see if any agencies near you would take on an intern. There tend not to be a ton of internships in this industry but they are out there and most will pay you at least a small stipend. 
If you have experience, that is more easy to find an agency. It's  need to recruit people with some skills with mathematics, Excel, technology, customer service, and more. I recommend you that practice it from now. Use your own campaigns.
Go to upwork, you might get some paid gigs

You just need to find someone who needs your service and is willing to pay.
First, get experience


But the quality of second point comes with first.

There are many to choose from. 


Don’t over complicate or overthink this stuff. 
[removed]
Hey Kaizen.

Typically get a proper branding done, that counts a dark and light logo-kit and some color research that stays prominent on everything (website, business cards, mugs, flyers, etc).

Once you are done with the same, do some phrase researches and stick to a prominent phrase while describing the business on any sort of copywriting online/offline.


Regarding pricing, since the person you'll be doing the marketing is your friend, ask them if they can offer you their service/product for a cheaper price. If they say yes, quote a cheaper quo. Other wise stick to the industry standard pricing.


Hope it helps! Would be glad to answer you further.

Cheers. 
Hi!  


I am also planning a startup and currently working on it i can share the things i have been trying to do to escalate and market the business.   




Second brand awareness in related communities this takes alot of time but helps you alot in turn.  


&#x200B;
Brands have a great deal to do with what people believe. People are attracted to those with the same beliefs. If your client was a person, what would they believe? What are their values? What they do is merely a function of how they express their beliefs.



Statements of Work are referred to in services agreements, which dictate payment, severability, liability, etc. You might not think this is necessary, but maybe you want to be ready for the next opportunity that isn't your friend. Very good to do if you are a contractor instead of a Corporation. A corp protects you from damages. (eg they go out of business, sunk their investors money, etc.)

Statements of work contents..

 *  Business background
 *  Goals
 *  Discovery
 *  Planning
 *  Logo
 *  Web design
 *  SEO
 *  Email marketing
 *  Ads
 *  Social
 *  Content creation
 *  Etc...

There are likely to be subsections that include vendor selection, negotiation etc.

 *  Payment. If you've done this before, charge by the deliverable. It's a lot safer to bill by the hour, but don't expect to learn on their dime.


  


  


  

Must 
Start with a brand kit. Everything else comes from that.
My advice would be not to charge, do the favour and get out. For marketing to work you need to really understand your audience, sounds like he's a little unsure of what he's doing so it will never trickle down. 
Pick a simple, out of the box bones solution for the site. 


Make sure you're optimizing both site side and paid side. You can have the best click through, targeting, and creative in the world, but if the site experience is completely awful, site side conversion rate will drown you. 


Don't be afraid to invest to test, monitor updates closely, and good luck!
[removed]
Probably group them by type, you’re on the right track!
You can do product type, category or even by brand. Depends on what you sell and how people search for what you sell. We do all of the above for different clients.

However in general I never create 1 ad group per product, the management requirements on this exceeds the profitability in most cases.

Instead I recommend to group them by niche. You can use product type or custom label attributes to subdivide these ad groups by adding the info in the data feed.


&#x200B;

Hope this helps.
I'm trying to understand what it's about. I visited their site, not clear, something to do with videos.
I was just looking at a Marketing Manager job in LA lol. If you are looking for a hot job at a tech company I would say go for it. I’m in the Bay Area myself 
I work remotely for a company based in LA. I think that’s been the best of both worlds for me
Hit the Bunny Slopes This Easter With Amazing Family Discounts!
How far can you push the boat out? can you be a bit risky? 

\*Your friends will be piste that they missed our prices!\*

Or you could go the opposite way with some puns.



&#x200B;

[For your eyes only] Easter Specials

The easter bunny doesn’t want you to see this

We’ve never done this

Our loss, your gain



The Easter Bunny will be mad....








Can you go into what your circumstances are? Pretty broad question as it stands.


Which would cover fb, insta ads etc., any paid platform for ads.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Check out Lynda.com they have some pretty solid content for beginners and intermediate level. 
Webscraping with python is  the only thing I can think of 

These skills include and not limited to (listed below each skill are free sources you can use to learn):   


• SEO 

SEO Learning Center by Moz

The Definitive Guide To SEO In 2018

How to Learn SEO in 2018 (and Stay Sane)

Neil Patel: The Advanced Guide To SEO

Search Engine Land’s Guide To SEO

7 Days to SEO Success

  
• PPC 

PPC University: Learn Search Marketing for Free with WordStream

Google Digital Garage

&#x200B;

• Social Media Marketing 

Social Media: The Free Beginner’s Guide from Moz

A Beginner’s Guide to Social Media Advertising

Facebook Blueprint by Facebook

Primer by Google

The Complete Guide to LinkedIn Ads

The Sophisticated Guide to Marketing on LinkedIn: 2017 Edition

The Complete Guide to Twitter Marketing

Twitter Marketing: The Essential Guide

Instagram Marketing: How to Create Captivating Visuals, Grow Your Following, and Drive Engagement

How to Create an Instagram Marketing Strategy

Snapchat Marketing: A Guide to Creating Compelling Snaps & Stories That Grow Your Brand

  
• Digital Analytics 

Google: Analytics Academy

A Beginners Guide to Facebook Insights

How to Use Twitter Analytics: The Complete Guide for Marketers

Understanding LinkedIn Analytics

Instagram Analytics Guide: How to Pull & Examine Your Data

Snapchat Analytics: How to Measure Your Brand’s Efforts on the App

  
• Design 

Graphic Design Tutorials By Canva: learn about concepts like color schemes, typography, designing with shapes and so on using Canva as a platform

Piktochart Tutorials: Learn how to create amazing infographics using Piktochart.

Visual Learning Center: Learn how to create infographics using Visme, another DIY tool.

Design Fundamentals by Crello: Crello is a new online graphic design tool that allows you to create some neat stuff. The tutorials cover a number of concepts from beginners to advanced.

  
• Inbound Marketing 

Hubspot offers a: Free Online Marketing Training | Inbound Certification

  
• Email Marketing 

A Beginner’s Guide to Successful Email Marketing

Email Marketing Made Simple: A Step by Step Guide

Getting Started with Email Marketing

&#x200B;

• Coding

 You can go to W3 School website to learn the basics for free: W3 Schools Online Web Tutorials 
You actually no need to take a paid course you have lot of content which you can watch and learn.

If you are interested in fb marketing you have facebook blueprint,similarly for google you have google academy
Digital Marketing involves many things such as SEO, social media marketing, link building, etc. So, you can go through the  or maybe go through the Whiteboard Friday sessions of Moz or Marketing Land to get an idea about this field. 
>'...so I can maintain an image on a business Instagram'

&#x200B;

Can you elaborate?
Yes they are totally free and you will have all the info.
I haven't really seen anything in-depth covering Instragram marketing that's any good - if you just try Googling around the subject you should find a number of blog posts that'll help. If you're looking for digital marketing help more broadly, you could do worse than reading a blog like Moz. For me, owning and operating a website, together with reading blogs, was the best to learn. 
Yoast is a great beginner friendly SEO plug-in for Wordpress 

Check YouTube, Udemy etc start digging in.


It's goes without saying to be very detailed oriented when doing your keyword research.

But as you're learning SEO for your website, I would also think about repurposing your web content into video and using what you learn in regards to SEO towards YouTube.

YouTube is the second largest search engine on the planet and I'm noticing an upwards climb especially with voice search becoming more and more popular. I.E people asking Google home for something and it playing a video...


Just food for thought on your Digital Marketing journey friend!
There is a google course on SEO/SEM, try looking for some insights there
This might help you out as it focuses on the basics & Advanced SEO. All the best :)

 [https://moz.com/learn/seo](https://moz.com/learn/seo) 

Backlink from high-authority sites will give you that backlink diversity for SEO and will give you a nice link juice.

If you don't know where to start, check out RankdSEO.com backlink database. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of websites.

Facebook is cancer.

Setting up computer, getting logged into all platforms, and scheduling intro calls/face to face with all relevant team members and stakeholders.

&#x200B;

When you enter a new roll as a Digital Marketer, with a new company, you will have a \~2-3 month period that will be a "learning period" for lack of better term. It's almost impossible to enter a company and start "working" immediately.
Besides setting up my computer and programs, I talked to people that were important to the success of my efforts. Sales people for instance, then customer success. It gave me insights into our customers, prospects, what kind of people we target, and how we speak about our product. This was over the course of the first week, but started with that on day 1 too. 

&#x200B;

Setting up computer, and a training course.
First day is pretty much all about setup. After that, reading on-boarding documentation about any need-to-knows with regards to the work such as demographics, objectives, current channels, etc. and then just doing some research and gaining a better understanding of the product at hand.
create a data field in your email service provider that allows users to self-select in their data settings whether they prefer Spanish or Portuguese. add the data points to your signup forms and then create workflows in your email service provider that sorts the people who are signing up by the language they would prefer.once you have the data and workflows setup send emails that are both in Spanish and Portuguese asking which language the people prefer to receive emails in.
If they’re already on your mailing list then you could ask them to click a link inside the email to choose their language, and then tag them accordingly. 


[removed]

Winging it is a good way to burn through cash you might not have. How many customers can you realistically afford to acquire at $300? Can you float the business with a good chunk of your money tied up in new customers?


I would say for a new business which doesn't/can't know an accurate LTV your ads are profitable if your monthly revenue generated by the ads is greater than your monthly ad spend. 

This may be conservative, but losing money is a tough proposition for all but the most well funded startups. 
You don't. You'll need another way of determining how much you should be spending. 
You rightly told..!!
I would like to take a different approach to the comments that have been put here. For Businesses starting out, looking at the ROAS will kill your development and long term growth. When starting out as a Startup or MVP Product of an SMB, your focus should be shifted from Hard  KPIs to SOFT KPIs: Lead conversion rate, time on page, bounce rates, churn rates, CPO and so on. Setup a 1-3 Year plan to reach a positive ROAS  


Rather then going on a rant I also want to give usable advice. Calculate your CPO (Cost per Order) on the base of your contribution margin. Specifically look at your contribution margin 1 and become profitable on that level.  


\# of Transactions / Total Marketing Cost = CPO  


Contribution Margin 1 = Unit Revenue - Unit Variable Cost  


Your Goal is to Reach a CPO that is lower than your contribution margin 1.   




for SEO purposes, try YOAST
Yes. Many. 
Plugins are for SEO purposes and SEO is a part of Digital Marketing.. Yoast helps to edit metatitle, metadescription and many other things.. W3 total cache, W3 super cache, Compress JPEG and PNG Images, etc.. There are so many plugins in wordpress, different ones for different tasks. 
The answer depends. What are you looking for? Lead generation, abandonment recovery, SEO, A/B testing, affiliate link management... you'll find a lot of them in the WordPress plugin repository.
Reddit as a source is a great place to find amazing stories, experiences and opinions from real people. If I’m a car company making an electric car, I wanna understand the consumer POV in detail on the ups and downs of a Tesla. I could look at Twitter, but that is short form, maybe too quippy, I could look at Facebook but really I can’t because they shut off their API, and their data that you can use is pretty shit, but if I look at the users on r/Tesla I can start understanding better because reddit is anonymous (or as anonymous as any given user wants it to be) and people will open up. You can start building your campaign, your product, your ad, your copy, etc around how these people actually discuss their passions and what they would have liked to see (grievances with functions of their Tesla for example)

If you can find ways to start understanding well X user is posting in r/Tesla and is also posting in Y subreddit, you can start gaining understanding of interest affinities. 





[article](https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.cnbc.com/amp/2019/02/11/reddit-users-are-the-least-valuable-of-any-social-network.html) 
Why don’t you share where you read that , there’s an article for every field of study dying.
SEO can never die. Every business is going digital now. When I say everything, it literally means every business right from grocery shopping to buying a car. Every business wants to get to the top of google SERPs. And only SEO can take you there, be it technical or in content. It is here to stay. Rather, I would say, its only the start. So, go ahead, learn some new skills.
Recommend starting with PPC and Analytics first, then training in SEO, content marketing and organic social
SEO will never die as long as Google is around. 

The techniques will keep on changing and remember that Google also want you to Optimize your website so that it can easily be crawled and accessible to the audience. So just don't worry about those articles. Interesting part of those articles is this that some people write about "SEO is dead" and then start to Optimize very same article and try to rank on top in Google :D isn't it funny?

&#x200B;

Type terms like "Google SEO" in search bar and you will find out starter guides provided by Google and also link of "Do you need an SEO". There is a video as well in which Google explains the importance of SEO and things to consider before hiring an SEO.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Links from Google: 

[https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/35291?hl=en](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/35291?hl=en)

[https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/7451184?](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/7451184?hl=en)

&#x200B;

P.s. And you will find many more such links where Google explains about SEO. Hope it will help you in getting better understanding.
SEO will never die, the best practices will likely shift as Google evolves and their auto-crawling system gets smarter.
SEO will not be die in the future also. It will remain in the world as long as the internet. 

Log into the ad manager and check to see if she is segmenting by age, gender, etc. I believe anything other than location will get it blocked. They are cracking down on that after the lawsuit they had. It’s seen as redlining 




In addition to obvious targeting on sex, race and age, be careful about cultural affinity parameters. I.e. Targeting or omitting qualities that indirectly lead to preferential audiences

It’s a fine line between creating a targeted audience & a discriminatory one, so you may want to create multiple ad groups to test-and-learn. 
Tag manager is the bucket to GA and Ads rocks—everything fits in the manager and the manager fits in your site so you don't have extra pieces of code to fire from the backend. 
So I've heard it both ways. I personally like importing goals into Adwords, it just simplifies the process. For phone call clicks and the like, I'm happy to use an event, but even then you need to use Analytics goals.

My manager likes using the GTM conversion tracking code just because Analytics reports conversions on a last non-direct click basis, so sometimes partial or even full conversion credit isn't given to Adwords. Of course, you can always view the difference in the Model Comparison Tool, but to each their own.

And you generally don't need to worry about doubletracking. I don't remember the specifics of what I read, but I was worried about the same thing before reading an article that explained it well. Something about gclid's only being able to register a single source on the cookie, or something like that. 
Tag Manager is a tool to easily manage all tracking pixels and conversion code. I’d recommend deploying all tracking tags (analytics, bing uet, facebook pixel, etc) through GTM whenever possible. This makes it so you can manage tracking code without roping in developer resources.

For Google Ads vs. Analytics conversion actions - the difference between the two is attribution models. In Analytics standard reports, goal completions are credited to the last interaction only. There could be 12 clicks to your website but Analytics will give 100% of the credit to the final one.

If somebody clicks on a search ad, than navigates directly to the website tomorrow and converts, this conversion won’t be sent to Google Ads (if you are importing GA goals) because Analytics will assign this conversion to Direct rather than Paid Search. 

Conversely, if you are using Google Ads attribution, the standard attribution model is last Google Ads click. This means that Google Ads will take 100% of the credit for the conversion even if they were just 1 out of a 100 clicks leading to the conversion. Somebody could click on an search ad, subscribe to your email list, click on a Facebook ad, click on an organic search listing, click on an email, and then finally convert and Google Ads would report this as a conversion attributed to the first ad click.

This is probably not doing it justice and I’m ignoring some of the alternative reports and attribution models you can use in Ads and Analytics. I suggest doing some additional reading on attribution models and customer journeys. I think most SEM marketers prefer Google Ads conversion tracking tags because it usually means their campaigns still get credited in Google Ads reporting even if the ad wasn’t the final click.

However, instead of jumping on Google Ads last click attribution, I recommend doing some research into your funnel and seeing what conversion paths your customers generally take. This will give you a better idea on which attribution model to select and how to value your campaigns.

Additionally, if you use Google Ads conversion tracking tags I would not freak out if Google Ads / Analytics don’t match each other 100%. If the attribution models are different, of course the reports will be different.



I've talked to Google reps and they don't care. 
When it comes to mobile apps (like the calculator) CTR is high since people click it by mistake scrolling or trying to close the ad. You'll probably have really high bounce rates and if you're tracking landing page loads these will likely be a lot lower than the number of clicks. 
You’re smart to be skeptical of bad sites/apps, bots, etc. And It’s not just a GDN phenomenon. Good marketers are the ones paying attention and constantly updating their exclusions. Don’t expect any ad tech platform to protect you — be proactive.
Short answer, yes. Can't rely on Google whatsoever to eliminate waste. 
It really depends on what track you want to go down in the beginning.


I know Hubspot offers a free inbound marketing certification course (I had my new hire take the course). After that then you can go down different paths depending on what you're most comfortable with (the goal is to be well-rounded by the end and tackle courses that you are uncomfortable with). These would range from content writing (blogs, PR, organic social media posting, KOLs, etc), paid ads (learning the backends of Adwords and Facebook Business), graphic design (how to make those eye catching images to push conversion), lead management (learn how to LQ, nurture and segment), everything SEO, email marketing, and landing page/email template design (get comfortable with drag and drop as well as CSS and HTML).

This would be a good place to start.

I've started giving this piece of advice to anyone that I know just getting started....and I really believe it. You shouldn't be afraid of "Starting fresh" in this industry because everything is always changing. Learn the best practices build on them, and constantly try new things - because that's the name of the game. Try, Test, Try, Test, Try, Test. Imposter syndrome shouldn't exist, because you should always be one step outside of your comfort zone.

Work to the best of your abilities by being a good writer, communicator, and being able to look at the big picture. In the meantime, I'd agree about taking the hubspot certification course to get a crash-course on best practices. 
I’m looking for a digital marketer to work with if you want “experience” if you’re interested!
[removed]
Nice Post!!
Are you using a marketing automation platform? in most cases the platform training modules are a great foundation source of resources.  Salesforce trailhead for example will give you what you need, but it is relevant to how Salesforce works.
Not sure if it is applicable but the google store, where you buy merch & gadgets allows free access to their analytics. Years of ecommerce data at your disposal.
First go on domain & hosting website and buy website & hosting to test marketing strategy.

1. You do it in your own account and they need to fund your spend. The advantage here is you keep the knowledge of the ads that were set up, the disadvantage is that you may have to chase the client for their ad spend;
It can be self learned. Online is just another medium with many different vehicles you can use to reach out to audiences.

&#x200B;

Here are the core competency areas:

&#x200B;

Marketing psychology (what makes consumers buy and how to create ads that sell)

Copywriting

Email marketing

Display advertising

PPC ads

ecommerce

Social Media (FB, Youtube, Reddit, Twitter, Insta)

Conversion optimization

UI / UX

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
No.

&#x200B;



If you're ops or campaign side you could get away with being an expert in one or two.

If you want to specialize hard in PPC/SEM kind of stuff, know about every channel. Spend extra time in the ones you think will be most useful for whatever you’re doing. My advice might’ve been different a couple years ago, but now it’s omnichannel.. diversified. 100% 
I recommend specializing but most recruiters think you should know everything in PPC. 🙄
When you're marketing anything, there is one platform that will bring you the largest portion of your traffic. It's different for different businesses. Some find Twitter useful. For some, Instagram is their biggest traffic converter. So, you gotta find what's your "thing" and be an expert in it. 

Eg one company might need a full time Google PPC specialist where as others would be fine with having a general paid specialist who operates over multiple channels.

Generally, it’s good to know multiple channels. 
You should try every channel whether it is FB, Google and, Amazon. After having a practical experience in all these channels. You can pick any one of this to be a specialist. I would not recommend you to be good only at one in the early days of your career. 
You should know about all digital marketing channels. It gives you a well rounded view. But it's impossible for anyone to become an expert on all of these. 



* Learning related channels makes you more effective at all of them


So you should learn about all and then go deeper with 2-3 related ones you find most exciting. 
The market definitely wants specialists/experts, that's where the hard skills are. I'd say focus in SEM because that's the most complex or RTB as it's the most recent and therefore not as much competition to get a job. The rest you can learn easily and it's a good plus. Big companies will hire a specialist for each channel while small companies will want someone that can do a little bit of everything so that's also something that you can factor in your decision.
100% yes.  It provides a couple of things to you:  First, you get a broader knowledge of marketing, which is far more helpful whether you are a single channel manager or a multi-channel manager.  Second, it provides you a ton more career choice.  If you choose to only do PPC, I sure hope you are going to love it the rest of your life as without knowledge of how the other channels work, you will be stuck.  Sort of on the other side, if you don't try other channels, how do you know what you like and don't like?  And third, people may disagree with this which is fine, but the world is moving toward more omni-channel right now.  Automation is forcing execution of individual channels away and more toward overarching strategy roles - which require broader thinking (totally understand there is some debate around this, but if you look at the trends of taking in-house, consulting companies buying agencies, agency holding companies trying to build consulting practices, and brands hiring for ecom, they tend to point in this direction).  Learn every channel as much as you can.  You can provide exponentially more value by knowing some of all channels than being an expert in just one (note: this doesn't apply to life, just digital marketing).
[removed]
Bing provides an interesting opportunity because it's less competitive and therefore less expensive. 
I’d also recommend Yahoo Gemini. Depending on the target market Bing and Yahoo can get you some pretty strong results. There’s not a lot of volume compared to Google but both search engines cater to older and slightly more affluent consumers.
**Search---**

Google Search 

YouTube 

Bing Search 

Google shopping

Bing shopping 

Gmail ads 


**Social---**

Facebook w/ dynamic feed based retargeting 

Instagram 

Snapchat 

Yelp

Twitter 

LinkedIn 

**Programmatic--**



Native-- click in and click out 

Roku, Hulu, DirectTV now, pluto TV, Samba 

Pandora/Spotify

**Email--**



Custom site automation 

**Classified--**

Programmatic solution to syndicate resumes across dozens of job sites

----

In the paid course you can actually setup the ads campaigns if your own. 
Oh fuck yes - can't speak for the google side, but Facebook Blueprint basically gives you an understanding of how their ads work, it doesn't actually teach you how to run good ads that will create ROI.  



&#x200B;
Promo & bitable but none of these stock sites come close to professional video production and if you are working for a bigger company amateur stock videos like these can actually deteriorate the brand's image but for small businesses it's a great option to get out there!
Wave.video
And
powtoon
Headliner
Pixteller is just like Canva, but you can animate any element in the design. Similar to how Adobe Flash was back in the days.
Typito
If you are looking to start your own agency, make sure that your true love is doing sales and client management. 

Knowing the details of digital marketing is not nearly enough. 
Everyone thinks working for themselves is just this easy and it rarely is. Getting clients... let alone clients on Upwork is hard. Those with good reviews on Upwork get a lot of the work and starting from scratch is not easy. Managing a business is not easy. Get some more experience and focus on getting better at your craft before starting a company. Both a drop ship store and an ad agency are going to require work you don't do now from back office, HR, admin, legal and other areas of the business that someone else takes care of for you.

I guess if you can get the routine down, dropshipping has a way better return on your time (you can automate a lot of the customer service process by outsourcing) and its pretty lucrative right now. Tons of cheap/free information on youtube and affordable course sites like Udemy.  

Just my 2 cents, best of luck bro!
There isn't one for Pinterest since it's only been taking off the last few years. 
I suggest you take a course or Facebook Blueprint or something before asking. Pixel's don't depend on the niche and it's actually used for tracking conversion.
You’re using WordPress or other CMS? 
Either share your website or your online customer journey so that specific feedback can be given.
Not a whole lot to go on here so take this with a grain of salt:

General rule is to have the standard PageView pixel on every page of your business’ website so you can track customer activity based on what pages they’re viewing.

If you’re trying to track leads from a landing page, you’ll need to add the Standard Event code on the thank you page.

I don’t know much about the real estate industry but I imagine that if you’re creating audiences for ad campaigns, you could track users that are viewing certain home listings and then serve them ads of similar listings (same area, price, etc.). A campaign like that would take a while to setup and would likely be unnecessary, but the possibilities are interesting.
A Facebook Pixel is a piece of code that lives in the HTML on your website. It's actually rather easy to install, there are a lot of videos online explaining how to do so, but Facebook Blueprint is going to be your best resource in learning how to do it without any errors. To answer the second part of your question, you can upload your sales as a CSV. file to the Offline Events section of Facebook. You'll need the customers name, email, phone number or another identifier that Facebook can use to match it to a profile. Once this file is uploaded you can view how many of your customers viewed or engaged with your ads, (and which campaign/adset/ad,) and went on to buy from you.
To me, a digital marketing progression imho: 1. has experience in developing, creating, and managing individual digital marketing platforms (adwords/fb, etc) to achieve a variety of outcomes 2. 1 + analyzing the data from those campaigns to improve them 3. 1+2 + Finds cross platform opportunities between them to achieve cross functional outcomes 4. 1+2+3+ uses the sum of their experiences to understand how digital marketing works on an individual level & cross platform level, eliminating nimieties. 5. Digital marketing strategist can deliver on 1-4 to almost any business
To establish skills for a digital strategist role, Go buy digital marketer lab plus. It comes with a legit course in every digital marketing subject, and to be a strategist you need an understanding of everything.





Three, create a campaign with transparent budgets and goals.

Four, launch, test, learn. repeat and be prepared to report. 


Be special. 
Online ordering, kick ass service.


Retarget ads and google ads to get initial burst of business, along with high profile catering. 


Get a basic, but super-dialed website. Ensure Online directory listings are pristine. Aggregate lots of amazing Google reviews. Ratargeting ads on Google and FB/IG.

Curveball: Facebook events every weekend.

Gather data on the webpages people are visiting 

> ...and interpreting the reports as quickly as possible...  

This can't be learned by reading, only by doing.
Do you mind giving us a salary ballpark? Congratulations!!
Do you know how long it takes for digital teams to develop a banner ad or a web page or create an app, etc?
I've been a digital coordinator for 5 months for a national company with 90 locations. I can give you advice, are you working in house or for an agency? 
Depends on the agency. In some agencies, a marketing co-ordinator is little more than an admin assistant that schedules tasks and ensures follow ups. In other agencies you may be expected to be very hands on with the work. It will depend on what kind of team you're working with. 

I think most importantly you have agency experience - that's the distinction that sets you apart from an office admin. You would have some understanding of the agency workflow and how to go about looking after campaigns, how the creative and content generation process works, etc. 

If I was employing a marketing co-ordinator, I would just want someone who seems organised, is prepared to learn and can juggle tasks, and also won't just sit there waiting for something to do but will chase clients up and keep things moving. Also someone who presents well and seems like they could hold their own in front of clients. 


In short, pay attention to the job specs and stress your ability to manage workloads and display excellent personal presentation, client-facing skills and working with a team. A marketing co-ordinator type role is a good entry-level role for someone who wants to go into digital and wear a number of different hats. 

I hate these. My advice is to remember or maybe list what about your skills and background you want to show with these presentations. Don’t get stuck in the weeds and waste your time on parts that won’t be as relevant to your scope in the position.



Hope that helps. Good luck! 
Start with the KPIs, and detail the ways you'll get there.
This sounds like free consulting more than an interview.
There are free Google ad videos that google supplies. 

\-Publish Content Regularly(fresh & unique)

\-Target high CPC keywords(Use "Keywords Everywhere" - Free Chrome extension)

\-Share post or article on social media

\-Create quality backlinks

Hi, thanks for this. Just sent you a mail.
Interested
Can you DM me more information? I can send you an email but would prefer to see if the opportunity would be mutually beneficial before sharing personal information. Thank you!
I personally am in Florida so it's hard to speak on behalf of LA. From what I know, LA has a lot of great opportunities for digital marketing jobs. Starting looking and see what jobs are available that fit your skill sets. Work with a recruiter ... if you are lucky, the company may be willing to help you with relocation. 
May have something for you. Messaging ya
Another one, with web scrapping and AI I recover every interest of any post on any social media and then remarketing each topic


It helps to be a bit detached; still committed but separate your ego/heart from the results. Get a contract signed for commissions/decisions/fees. Oh, make sure you have a relationship with the campaign treasurer if you don't want to get stuck with unpaid bills!

Read up on Blue State Digital, that was the company behind the super successful digital marketing campaign for Obama. They even have a TED talk about some of the stuff they did.
How would it be different from any other kind of SEO?
Get all the free ones before you pay for certifications.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Does anyone you know have a small trade/business with a website? Ask if they can let you have a go at putting what you've learnt on the free certs into practice.

&#x200B;

When you get to interview stage, demonstrable experience will boost your advantage massively - especially if you've got tangible results off the back of it.

&#x200B;

Hope this helps - good luck.
Facebook Blueprint maybe? Depends how you want to build your profile, going more into paid or organic.
I started from a super technical area of digital marketing which is PPC and SEO - and later on i added more design and web development. Pretend that tomorrow you have your own business and you need to get started - what would llearn first? I would look into Web Dev on wordpress - templates - CSS HTMl - then get Certified by Google in Search and Analytics. Then go to [MOZ.com](https://MOZ.com) and read the entire PDF on SEO.  After that I would get into sales funnels and email marketing. The last thing I would do is social media marketing and content marketing. But all digital marketing is is creating costumer journeys so you can get their email and build an emailing list so you can monetize it.
You could consider keeping with the content side and getting in via enterprise content management as well. Look at something like Adobe Experience Manager and focus on helping to drive individualized content in the customer journey...

Just a thought on how to leverage you existing experience.
I think Graphic Design is a part of Digital Marketing. Without the assets (ad images, landing pages, web design), Digital Marketing will not yield results.
You can use your "creative" aspect to market yourself in Digital Marketing. Show them examples of your work and the results the business achieved.
Want a job? Lol!
Where can we see your portfolio?

Likes and comments on your post is good though. 
Sounds like they either need an entry-level team member in brand marketing or they don't know what brand marketing is or they're full of shit.


It will also make a bigger contribution to your CV than some certificate.


If you want to be a media manager, start looking into getting Google Adwords certified. They have lots of good resources and the certificate program is just a good structure.

I like Rick Mulready's podcast The Art of Paid Traffic. He offers guides and coaching, but you can start only by listening to the episodes. Search the archive for older episodes. Some are good stories by successful and not so successful digital marketeers. If you are just starting out, you will learn a lot from both. Also a big part of digital marketing is creativity. Try to find inspiration on copy, photography and design. Check the portfolio of successful digital marketing agencies like Wieden + Kennedy. 
Digital Marketing is not the domain for the tech only. It is a myth. Anyone with passion for creativity, and numbers can learn Digital Marketing. Concourse, it takes time to perfect any art.
Courses, like those from Udemy or somewhere else, are useful, But until you implement the theory, you will not have a command over the subject.
Don't use Wix as a site. When I ran recruitment ads and even now as I consultant as a PPC recruiter for clients. They use Google ads, and job boards to find new people to fill roles. HR & recruitment is a people business and thus it's all about who you know. You can do some nice ad on LinkedIn but you need to know those brands are looking to hire.
Imho this segment is too competitive. Everyone will be curious about how do you avoid conflict of interest.
It would be best to do some A/B testing. Try out different button text, see which one results in more conversions. Subscribe, Buy Now, Purchase, Take My Money, Submit - all possibilities. 
It begins with "Get Started" or "Register", perhaps end with "Finish Registration" to complete the loop (psychologically). 

Install Google Optimize.

A/B test two different versions of text on the button - don’t make “clicking” the button your success metric; make finishing checkout the success metric.


Repeat.

A lot of people fall for the click through fallacy when in fact you want to make the real goal your goal (ie get money).

It’s quite possible that Buy Now gets lower click through because low intent users don’t click it; however it can also still be true that Buy Now gets more money in your pocket because it moves people further down the funnel and the middle intent users end up more committed after clicking it vs some “nicer” worded button.

Click Here
Do you have a degree or experience?

IMHO, you’re kind of in a tough spot. I’d suggest going through the process and then asking them how they define success in the role. Once they define it, ask if you have demonstrated your path to achieving that success and what the value of that is to the company.

I've been in your exact position, eerily - also int he NW Suburb of Chicago. They gave me $34,000 at an eight-person company, I was their first marketing hire. $34-36 is realistic.

Here are some points you might want to check / optimize that maybe can helps

1. Your email size
3. Image (embedded or linked)
4. Your text is also important, some words are detected by mail software or antivirus and are classified as junk/spam.

&#x200B;


Hope this helps.
I understand your frustration. Sadly, many of us have been on that boat where emails don't end up in the right folder.


Do I have your permission?
This is perhaps the biggest reason why emails are spammed. 
Did your recipients subscribe to your email?
Please ensure you send emails to subscribers.
The CAN SPAM law is pretty strict.

Fishy IP Address:
You know how they say, a bad record on your license can take a long time to go away?

Low Open Rates:
Check your email metrics, and see the trend of your Open Rates. A consistently low open rates can kind of “suggest” the email providers to move to spam.

Low Mailbox Usage:
Check the ratio of active to inactive email accounts on your list.

Misleading Subject Lines:

Missing Physical Address:
Don’t breach the CAN-SPAM Act.
Ensure you add your physical address to the email.


Words Dear to Spam folder:

Steer clear of words such as amazing, dear friend, free, promise you, risk free, this is not spam, for only $, guaranteed or order now.

These words can lead your emails to the Spam folder.


Now, coming back to your question about tools to send “bulk” emails.



You can look for Bigg Mass Mailer, which is a free tool for generating mass mailings. 


Shashank

Hey I don't know how your mails are going to spam but mailchimp is supposed to be one of the best out there when it come to email marketing. Try sending it out in Batches. If that does not work contact their support team.
So can you check the deliverability and spam rating on your company's domain? I wonder if your company email domain is on a bunch of blacklists. Problem is that if your company uses one single domain to send thousands of emails, overtime as they start bouncing, being marked spam, or being suppressed it hurts your deliverability. I would suggest that once you check out those metrics, and to possibly get a subdomain just for your team to use?
Others already provided great tips. But there is another one why your email might land in the spam folder.

If your email domain name start with something like support@ or info@ then email providers like Gmail will send them into spam.

You can try something like hello@ or {first\_name}@.
Is your sending IP good? You might have been blacklisted for some reason or another. Make sure you're sending from a good email address too.
Make sure: 

You have a domain email address/paid email address

You aren’t using gmail yahoo etc.

You don’t have a bunch of links on cold emails

Text emails convert higher because they don’t go to promotions tabs 

You have a physical address at the bottom of your email

They are subscribed to your email list
Your email's subject line is one of the crucial reason to make your email a spam. That's why you have to focus on your email subject. Don't make it too promotional for your users. Apart from the subject line, you should focus on your email body, try to make your email body personalized as per your users.
Hey there - the reputation that's associated with your sending IP is going to determine whether it lands in spam or not. My recommendation would be to implement a new mailer system (SendInBlue is good), and get on an incremental send volume strategy. My company does this sort of stuff. Feel free to PM me if you'd like to speak.
Yo.. welcome to the frustrating world of email marketing :o

First.. Your domain is blacklisted, not your IP.  If you're using mailchimp I assure you the IPs in their sending pool are clean w/ good rep. What to do? Either take the time and effort to get off the blacklist or just grab a new domain and start mailing again.

Second.. Stop using mailchimp. I'm assuming you're trying to do affiliate marketing. While you may get by for a while, eventually they will shut your account down. They do NOT like affiliate marketers on their ESP and even say so in their terms.


Take care of these 3 things and then you can worry about inboxing.
Not digital marketing itself, but some repetitive tasks as creating dozens of ads, A/B tests etc.

The natural path is automation as it is already happening. As the time gets by, it will get easier and easier to anyone create an ad. I mean, social media and search engines companies make profit from ads. It has to be easier so more people (and robots) can do.

The strategy and creative decisions will still be on human hands (I hope so). But I guess we will see the number of jobs going down soon.

Let me explain you why Google Ads are becoming easier and easier to setup because there are lots of ads platforms in the world. Even some of them provides the better ROI than Google ads. Therefore Google Ads is facing competition from these platforms. To overcome this competition Google is now creating their ads platform easier than ever. So that anyone can use Google ads to run their online promotion.

Now get back to your question is this the end of digital marketing agencies? My answer is no because not everyone in the world is having the effective copy writing skills. Digital marketing agency is filled with copywriters who write an amazing and effective copy for the Google ads. That's why it is nearly impossible that innovation in Google ads will replace the digital marketing agencies.
For agencies that focus a single channel, maybe. If your agency is focused on omni channel campaigns, I think there will be even more competition and need for agencies to oversee.
Actually i would argue that it will open the door for more agencies to operate and lower costs for the costumer making it more affordable for everyone



1. Use Moz's DA as a reporting/success factor in your reports, which you probably shouldn't be doing anyways.
2. Are in the business of building/flipping domains/link services for (likely blackhat) SEO purposes, and use mid-high DA to get sales.

Google does not care about your DA score, and you'll see no changes on your site or rankings.
If you're pulling bulk amounts of data, it will freeze up the platform thinking that you're a bot. Went back and forth with support for about two days to figure this out. They said the only solution is to give the platform time to restart itself.

-Google Certifications
-HubSpot Certifications
-Listen to marketing podcasts like Neil Patels
-Consdering General Assembly course
-Or like you mention a bootcamp. There are also like 9 month courses from schools, but those can prob be more expensive.


Best of luck! 
It 100% percent depends who is running the bootcamp. More than likely you will end up with a bootcamp run by a fraud. To start, get any relevant Google Certifications and the Facebook Blueprint. Start networking today and signup for local marketing meetups, events, associations, luncheons etc. Talk to people and let everyone know what you are doing. You will find a lead on a company hiring and learn along the way.
Nothing matters as long as you know digital marketing. I'm a Engg. By education and never done an MBA after that. But, now i'm a marketing manager in 2 years of starting my career.

The certs should be enough. I never heard of a marketing bootcamp and having attended one would make a difference to me.


Do you use the proper sizes?
Hubspot 

There are different type of services available but it all depends on what type of social media management you need. 
HubSpot would be the go to for multiple services, though it gets pretty pricey.

I understand the convenience of having everything in one platform, but you’d be better off having 2-3 dedicated solid platforms. 1 for social, 1 for email and 1 for CMS.    
Bitrix
Organic and paid or just paid? 
The Dock, The Anchor, MarinaMail

&#x200B;
A similar case is the Uber / Grab merger in SEA last year. If anyone has more information about that, that would be pretty helpful as well 
 

1. Describe your organization in as few words as possible.
2. What are the objectives of the Digital Marketing Strategy? Be as specific as possible. e.g. instead of saying ‘Increasing brand awareness’, say ‘Increasing brand awareness amongst the PHP programmers of Rome.’
3. On what parameters would the performance of the Digital Marketing Strategy be measured? e.g. Mailing list subscribers, Facebook fans, revenue, online sales etc.
4. What is the budget and time-scale of the Digital Marketing Strategy?
5. Have all stakeholders agreed to these objectives, parameters, budget, and time-scale?
6. Define the personnel who will be working on implementing the Digital Marketing Strategy. How many man-hours can the organization devote to implementing the Digital Marketing Strategy?
1. Budget / Timeline allocated for the project to determine the level of work you deliver + time invested.
2. Expectations & objective of the relationship / consulting you will deliver
3. What services are required and why? (Here offer upsells after doing extensive research before meeting client)
4. What their goal for the year is
5. Who their target market is / personnas (to better target ads, work on relevant & relatable copywriting, and to undestand your audience)

&#x200B;


Goodluck mate
Their goals, their marketing plan, their audience, their history (what’s worked and what hasn’t, and why), their budgets and timeframes, their capabilities inhouse, their obstacles

Make sure you’re well researched in how you can help them either bu creating opportunity or saving cost (or both)
What have you tried already?
You’re asking specifically about improving the website positioning on search results? Or about the whole strategy?

If it’s the former, here’s some low hanging fruit you want to take care of at the minimum. To begin with, focus on quality of content for the topics and keywords you want to rank well for. And confirm Google has site indexed (crawled) your site.
Web development and mobile development services are extremely competitive. Is it a brand new website or did you do a redesign? If it is a brand new site, it takes a while for your site to earn Google and other search engines' trust.  I normally recommend my clients to consider paid search (if they have the budget) to generate traffic while we/they continue to create the content to generate organic traffic, interest, engagement, authority ... 

&#x200B;

It will be important for you to create some type of a content strategy/plan - consider doing video, case study, whitepaper, Q&A or FAQ ... a lot of people do type of specific questions. Talk to the sales team and see what type of questions they get asked the most ... make a blog post or article about it.

&#x200B;

Since you already have SEMrush, check out the social media workflows that are on here: [https://campaigns.semrush.com/easy-solution](https://campaigns.semrush.com/easy-solutions/). r/SEMrush
Aaand, speaking of SEMrush - are you using our Social Media Tracker tool for your analysis? It should be a perfect match for you if you are looking for



\- Kate from SEMrush

&#x200B;
Ahrefs.
Social Media Analytics Tools:

1. Sprout-social
2. BuzzSumo
3. IconSquare
4. Google Analytics
 SEMRush is definitely one of the best tools to check the competitors. However, you can use Sprout social, social blade as well for checking analytics of your competitors. This will help to develop strategies which will help you to excel in the field of digital marketing. 
Socialbakers
Go into Google Editor and go to Keywords and Targeting > Mobile App Categories, Negatives. Select "Add Negative Mobile App Category".  Select All Apps > OK 
Honestly GDN inventory isn't great and pretty sure there is more fraud/bots there.

3) set a conversion pixel on site, ideally on the next step of the user journey to track and engaged visit, a conversion can be anything you want to optimise towards more valid users on a CPA model, it doesn't have to be a purchase. 

Can you split the tutorial into parts? Offer a free section and the rest paid for a fee?

I have seen companies also charge a lot per tutorial and then offer a significant break for a monthly subscription.

Sorry I don’t know many tutorials you offer or anything about the business model. Just off the top of the head





If the linked account falls below 250 clicks over the past 30 days for the selected view, Smart Goals will be deactivated until the clicks rise again to 500 or more. 


I've found SMS conversion rates from cold leads are typically terrible, although great as a service reminder.


What exactly is your goal here?
Honestly you’re better off running a proper Facebook campaign or Google. 

Hi, India here!

&#x200B;



Sounds interesting. I'd like to get involved if possible. 
sent you an email
sent you an email
Sounds great would like to work with you
Just emailed you!
Unless you're completely rebranding (changing name) I'd just keep that account and wipe the page. start fresh with new images or some designs advertising your skills. Although 1000+ followers might be low to some I think it helps you stand out as somewhat reputable, especially if the page looks nice. 
Hi ! If you guys have any other suggestions, i'll be glad to hear more ! \^-\^
Use numbers as your friend.

Show the difference between an organic post and a boosted one and an ad. Show that organic reach is basically nothing. 

Facebook will give you estimates on the number of interactions yu can expect based on how much you are paying, so use that as well. 
ManageWP, MainWP or infiniteWP, they are all freemium apps that can do the job

&#x200B;
You're looking for an "Uptime Monitor".

There are lots of services with free plans (with 10 min or 5 min intervals) and restrictions on number of pages. A quick google of that phrase will bring up services you can evaluate.
Statuscake should work well
We use ManageWP and we like it a lot!
Thanks all, I see you all recommending ManageWP. I am going with it. 
Am I the only one getting a kick from you converting some preachers?

Idk a pastor is a very niche person to target. It seems like it'd be hard to find that many that are even online

If you just need the names and don't care about conversions, buy or scrape a list. If you plan on upselling them and want them engaged, you can find them on FB. Use FB lead ads, target a lookalike of a pastor seed audience.
Consider partnering with leading sites in the niche and using their database, and building your own funnels using facebook ads. If you are new to funnels perhaps consider a training course or two
An El Toro campaign geofenced around churches might get some signups. If you are gonna spend that much you might as well try some out of the box ideas.
I have dedicated assistants who create databases for my clients. 

Then the client reaches out with thoughtful email blast. 


- your own asset of leads that means to you 
- up to date information  


Google data studio
A slightly more advanced version to google data studio would be Power BI, but I've used google data studio and it is very easy to get going with a lot of choice for your data sources and a reasonably good design UI, could be better but it's free unlike Power BI although you can get a free trial to give it a go.
If you are ok with using something paid. I use Dashthis. I've also been looking at Databox which has a free plan and is geared towards agencies/consultants like us providing reporting.. 
Yes, there are distinct differences in the concepts.  Social monitoring is typically the act of listening to your owned channels and interacting on those.  For example, responding when someone @mentions your brand on Twitter, or seeing reactions to your brand posts.

Social Listening is much broader and, typically, leverages query logic to look across part of or all of a social channel.  For example, depending on your listening vendor, you may get access to the Twitter decahose (10% of the real-time twitter stream), or the Twitter firehose (the entire Twitter stream).  You can also run that query across multiple channels to look for conversations that, while not specifically @mentioning your brand, may be talking about it (it may be misspelled, or a topic of conversation may impact your brand).  That is listening for new conversations, but there are also tools that can look at historical channel data to look for conversation trends, and the like.


With a good social platform, you may combine listening data in a monitoring dashboard, so there could certainly be overlap, but they are distinct capabilities of a platform.

Hope it helps.

The first case sounds better as it signifies a team to me rather than just delegating the task and being over with it. 
I catch myself using 'love' a lot in my writing and often go back to replace it with variants like happy/eager/delighted/stoked, depending on the audience and tone of the overall piece. Personally I think it feels so natural and genuinely earnest when I write it, but then I read it in any social media caption or overly-enthused blog and I want to gag on how scripted it sounds. Its unfortunate. Do you normally get leads/conversions through your blog posts? You can **try AB testing** it to see if it makes a significant difference. 

Regarding your second question, I personally think that giving **direct first names** makes your company seem way more accessible and genuinely eager to connect with your audience. I think this significantly outweighs the idea that your team is friendly or knowledgeable, which is honestly the expectation by default.
You answered your own question. Do internships.
Are you trying to do a edm campaign or are your normal emails ending up in people’s junk folders?
What size is the list you’re sending to? 
Yeah optimise your subject line to be less spammy. Also create a mailshot with a high HTML to image ratio.  And more stuff I can’t remember right now.
I've had similar problems reaching peoples inbox before with gmail. Even some emails i've sent to my friends they went to junk lol. When I made a google business email I noticed my emails do hit the inbox 99% of the time.  I realize your not using a mailing list program but, there is software you can use that are optimized to land in the inbox that I've had great results with in the past. I used Market Hero but, Klayivo is even better.
Likely a domain trust issue. Unless you have taken steps to make your domain you send from trusted, you are likely to be seen as spam by many providers. In the last couple of years this has become more important.

Also, you could be blacklisted. Check MX Toolbox to see 
[removed]
Can someone give some context here? Is gathering the number of followers of different instagram profiles in an automated manner not legal? 
Check the estimated first page bid. The CPC may just be too low to compete in the auction. Do a test and set the CPC to $10 and see what you get, as that will give you the data.
If the bid is not enough, it should be showing a message. How did you set the ad campaign, ad group, keyword for that ad?

Look into creating a custom audience to re-target the people who engaged with your ad but didn’t convert. Plenty of how-to’s on google and YouTube 
You can use the same ads in a different campaign - in this way you will retain all the social proof (likes, comments, shares, etc).  



&#x200B;

On a similar note, you should be A/B testing. Sure your sales were good, but you can make them even better month over month by running multiple ads with different pictures, different copy, etc. and just looking at which are converting best. Then you can shift the budget towards the better-performing ads and/or just remove the crappier ones.

&#x200B;

Make use of the data!!
Sounds like tawk.to
I use Zopim/zendesk chat, which does all of this. There are numerous competitors that have similar functionality as well.

What would set yours apart?
I believe zopim/zendesk and intercom (more recently) have this space pretty well covered.  Not that there isn't room for a new player in the space, but these systems are *very* well established and heavily used across just about any industry you can imagine.  I'd put some serious planning into what would differentiate you from these systems otherwise it'll be hard to capture any of the market.
You have it correct.

CTR = Clicks/Impressions, represented as a percentage.

So 20,000/1,000,000 = 2%.

Your conversion rate will be measured as: sign-ups/clicks through to website, represented as a percentage. 

For instance: 800/20,000 = 4%.

Another metric to look at would be your eCPA, or cost per acquisition. 

If you outlay $40,000 on a campaign and have 800 sign-ups, that's an eCPA of $50
How much is a good ctr? 1.5%m

Wow, thank you so much for taking the time to write up this post. I love posts like this because it's motivating and gives back so much value to the community. I'm very happy for your success so I hope you wouldn't mind me asking a few questions to pick your brain..

1) How did you go about determining how much you were compensated for your efforts? 

2) What were the metrics you chose to evaluate the success of a marketing strategy for your client?

3) Where did you learn digital marketing?


This is great, thanks!  So you never contacted or visited any local businesses? 
Can I ask a technical / set up question. 



I am planning a monthly fee to include the creation of the ads, videos if used and landing pages if used. 


Do you let Facebook bill the client and just invoice for your service or do you bill for everything in advance and you control the ad spend given to facebook?


However most people seam to like to charge a fee and let Facebook bill the client. 

Just looking for some pointers around this. 

SEO quake is also good tool.
Liked it !

&#x200B;

Thanks for sharing.
Thanks Brother 
Awesome 
Super useful post. Thank you a lot!
Useful list... thanks for sharing the post...
Thank you! 
Great list! There are a few I've never heard of on here, so def going to check them out. Thanks for sharing!
Appreciate the awesome post!

What’s the point of Funnelytics? Does it make setting up the proper events in your funnel easier or something? I feel like if you can’t figure out the proper event tracking and tagging with your web analytics solution, why would you be able to figure this out unless it was “idiot proof.”
I love Trello! Thanks for the list. I'll check them out.

Thanks for taking your time to share this knowledge u/Sanjuujosephh
Thanks for sharing!!
Congratulations! Best of the luck!

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Try to add different skills to your stack as well, like if you a have a clear weekness in areas like content marketing, SEO, PPC and social, try to learn as much as possible. 

&#x200B;

Again, best of the luck and congratulations.


Congratulations...Inspiring post. Thank you for sharing your experience with us.
Congrats! It's really nice that you can choose your path between the two. I personally really like product marketing and wish that I had this kind of option.
Thanks for the post! Good to hear! Good luck! 
This kind of posts always brings hope for the budding digital marketers out there. 

Congrats on the new position. I'm sure that you'll be the best.
Congratulations man, best thing is just start something of your own while doing the job.a website ,Facebook page group or anything that use your digital expertise.it will gradually grow while you work for this company.and one day there will be  a point where you can do your own thing for living .good luck. 
Congs!!! Just focus on the course after Google ads  training take related course, you will be learning as you are working
FOLLOW INDUSTRY EXPERTS ON SOCIAL

Also, listen to marketing podcasts and read some articles to stay ahead of trends and new areas of digital marketing. 


Surprised nobody mentioned [Google Digital Garage](https://learndigital.withgoogle.com/digitalgarage), it's free and provides a nice and simple introduction to Digital Marketing.

**Blogs to follow:**

* PPC Hero - [Website](https://www.ppchero.com/)
* Search Engine Land - [Website](https://searchengineland.com/)
* Moz - [Website](https://moz.com/blog)
* KlientBoost - [Website](https://klientboost.com/blog/)
* AdSpresso - [Website](https://adespresso.com/blog/)
* Shopify - [Website](https://www.shopify.com/blog)
* WordStream - [Website](https://www.wordstream.com/blog)
* Jon Loomer - [Website](https://www.jonloomer.com/blog/)
* Ahrefs - [Website](https://ahrefs.com/blog/)
* LunaMetrics - [Website](https://www.lunametrics.com/blog/)
* Annielytics - [Website](https://www.annielytics.com/blog/)
* Simo Ahava's Blog - [Website](https://www.simoahava.com/)

&#x200B;

**People to follow:**

* Jon Loomer [Twitter](https://twitter.com/jonloomer)
* Annie Cushings [Twitter](https://twitter.com/anniecushing)
* Tim Soulo [Twitter](https://twitter.com/timsoulo)
* Brian Dean [Twitter](https://twitter.com/Backlinko)
* Avinash Kaushik [Twitter](https://twitter.com/avinash)
* Barry Schwartz [Twitter](https://twitter.com/rustybrick)
* Rand Fishkin [Twitter](https://twitter.com/randfish)
* Larry Kim [Twitter](https://twitter.com/larrykim)
* Neil Patel [Twitter](https://twitter.com/neilpatel)
* Simo Ahava [Twitter](https://twitter.com/SimoAhava)

&#x200B;

**More worthwhile courses:**

* Hubspot’s Inbound Marketing Course [Website](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/inbound)
* Facebook Blueprint [Website](https://www.facebook.com/blueprint)
* Hootsuite’s Social Marketing Training [Website](https://education.hootsuite.com/courses/social-marketing-education)
* Semrush’s Technical SEO Course [Website](https://www.semrush.com/academy/courses/18/lessons/509)
* Excel for Marketers [Website](https://www.lynda.com/Excel-tutorials/Excel-Marketers/618711-2.html)

**Shameless plug:** I complied a list of [Digital Marketing Resources](https://louddigital.co.uk/digital-marketing-resources/)
Most Youtube channels are full of people trying to sell you $997 courses or get rich quick stuff to newbies. 

Take a look at Profit Copilot and Miles Beckler. 


If you can think of a particular area of digital marketing there’s probably a specialist out there.


Apply everywhere and show initiative! When I hire, I look for those that are passionate and motivated over skills. Just like my manager did for me.
My best suggestion is to take Seth Hymes digital marketing course. It's $100 a month. He explains things though really simply to where almost everything is easy to understand. And the best thing is is that people from the course will rep your skills on LinkedIn, which will get you a lot of interviews. 

* **Automation** 
* **Email Marketing** 
* **Search Engine Optimization (SEO)** 
* **Search Engine Marketing (SEM)** 
* **Social Media Marketing (SMM)** 
* **Apps Store Optimization (ASO)** 
* **Mobile Marketing** 
* **Content Marketing** 
* **Growth Hacking**

Here I am sharing you some steps that you need to take for become a Digital Marketing Expert: 

* Build your LinkedIn profile and connect with industry expert to learn as well as stay up to date with the latest news.
* Must read Digital Marketing Books/Articles/Blogs which cover fundamental skills to be a successful digital marketer.
* Enroll Yourself in Digital Marketing Certification Courses 
* Start Practicing 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
The list of digital marketing strategies are also constantly evolving, but here are some of the strategies most businesses are using:

**Pay-Per-Click Advertising**

**Paid Search Advertising**

**Search Engine Optimization (SEO)**

**Paid Social Media Advertising**

**Social Media Marketing**

**Conversion Rate Optimization (CRO)**

**Content Marketing**

**Native Advertising**

**Email Marketing**

**Affiliate Marketing**

As you can see from the list above, there are a lot of different ways to market your business online, which is why many businesses hire **Glorywebs** to manage their digital marketing efforts or pay for an in-house marketing team.
Brother, I would recommend you start listening and watching Gary Vee - Google him. Mainly watch his YouTube channel where he give up the knowledge he learned in his last 20 years doing marketing. Then start reading Jon Loomer and Neil Patel blogs. These guys are practitioners in their craft - Facebook, Instagram, PPC, SEO marketing.


Follow Neil Patel and Brian Dean (backlinko.com & Neil Patel.com) 

-Hootsuite Social Media Certification (free)
-HubSpot Academy (Free)

See what you like then find some more materials once you see what you’re into. 


It's a really fun course and Seth is extremely personable and relevant... His goal is to get you excited about DM and get a job in it
 If you create your career in digital marketing, then you learn all major parts of digital marketing like SEO, SMO, PPC, Email Marketing, Paid Marketing On social marketing, Paid marketing in Bing, Yahoo and Google and many search engines, Lead Generation through Social Channels, Affiliate Marketing and some updated things. Desire to learn new things  to grow the business.
I couldn't agree more! It feels like the info that I can actually use is nowhere to be found. Seriously thinking about starting my own blog and trying to actually help people.
100% with you on this. I was guilty of this when I first started blogging. Switched my tune around to focus on posts that try to help small businesses. One of the main things that opened my eyes was every business owner asking if they should pay for yellow pages premium listings & ads. It donned on me that there are plenty of topics around small business that are relevant. Not just how great spending X less on FB and Y more on Instagram increased Z by 1000%

To preface: I respect that you're taking on the challenge of teaching yourself. I recently moved in house for a Digital Marketing Manager role at a small healthcare design/consulting firm and I think being forced to perform really well for a single client is more powerful motivator to learn. I'm also fairly interested in our service offering, which is a nice change. Account management used to take up so much of my time and I never felt like I really needed to go above and beyond for clients. 

&#x200B;



We did rely on a few basic marketing guides that are free online to explain super basic concepts. But after the first few weeks it was kind of sink or swim. Learn as you go with low stakes clients. Mix of B2B and B2C. The practice was super valuable.

&#x200B;

Cheers to continued learning!
I agree! Ironically, many of the marketers made a basic mistake which is not have specific niche, I think that’s why you get into those general, one size fits all type of article. Keep looking though, I think there will be some good content out there 

&#x200B;
If you're looking for marketing information online, have you read "Confessions of an Advertising Man" by David Ogilvy? He's the grandpappy of advertising, founder of one of the biggest agencies in the world, and he advocates Direct Response Marketing (a.k.a. SEM). The principles he discusses msy come in handy to you.


&#x200B;

What you’re better doing is actually looking at successful marketers and just doing “what they do” rather than what they “say”.


That’s really interesting because I started a little business years ago to be a freelance marketer to those small bricks and mortar businesses, especially the ones run by older generations that need a conversion to the digital age.

When it comes to point 2, selling systems, I like to approach client the other way around. You help clients get more sales with Facebook ads, you help clients get more phone call with SEO, you help build a better brand with good social media management, etc. To me it looks like most of them don’t care about your service at all, they just care about the result 

10 years ago I started that journey and it turned into something amazing. 

There’s light at the end of the tunnel. Keep grinding.
Thanks man helpful 
Lol Dan Lok is that you?
Best. Advice. Ever
Very true
"Jab jab jab, Hook." By Gary V. Give something, earn trust, respect and then ask. Good advice.
Not always the case it mostly consists on how witty you are in promoting your products. Most of the marketers go for constantly marketing their products which makes them look like a person who is just there to sell their stuff and not help the community in any way.
True 
Truth
Show your boss his closest and most rivaled competitor(s) and provide examples of how they're winning with content. This tactic works like a charm.

What's the vertical industry? 

I've found that when trying to educate people internally about things like this it can be more effective to get an outside expert to come in and do a session or a case study. Despite them hiring you as the expert people will always want you to fit into the box they've created for you in their mind, you need someone to expand their perception. You can position it as an opportunity to hear from a top thought leader in the field or something like that to give it a bit more gravitas internally.

Perhaps use a specific paid digital marketing channel as an example? Paid search would be a good one. "Hey boss man, digital marketing isn't just social media. Did you know there are people out there searching on Google for the exact product/service we offer and that there's a way we can be the first thing they see when they search?" 
ROI.  Return on Investment.  


Show him the front page of Google, and use Ahrefs to quantify the amount of potential leads you could get for your niche or category, and what keywords are feasible to rank in 30,60,90, and 180 days for your 2019 marketing plan. 
Digital Marketing is strictly product driven, you can't sell a b2b software on Snapchat or a b2c software on a b2b forum.

&#x200B;

Show him case studies and usage of digital media overall.
Give me his email and i'll convince him... ; )
Hi,

The best way is to show your CEO the digital marketing efforts and RIO report of the biggest competitor of your company.  Show him the reach and branding efforts done online and what can be the future revenue generation that you can do with you.
  

I think you should make a PowerPoint presentation and add slides of how digital presence is important and the factors that are associated with ranking. Also you can give show case studies how digital marketing has helped in increasing its presence on the internet platform. 

I'd start with the rule of 7. Google it if you are unsure. Then, again, my experience has been that after they understand time of 7 and that we not love in a time where we are bombarded with ads 24/7 on the digital boards in our pockets, you explain what retargeting is. 

I've had great readiness work this as the rule of 7 is and old rule. If I explain it like when I grew up ,( late 30s and yes I explain it this way to older and younger)- watched sat morning cartoons saw brand x, reading comics books, saw brand x, talking to Mom who is looking coupons saw brand x, go to store to buy groceries w my radio plays brand x, get to store see brand x and beg mom for it. 


The rule of 7 to 11 and retargeting in a nutshell
Tackled this a lot. 

Nothing works better than live proof. 




Social media is the future of Digital Marketing. As today along with content marketing in Digital Marketing, Social media is the key to Digital Marketing.

Explain these things to your CEO or now if you are not taking it into consideration then definitely  you are lacking somewhere.
How are you planning to run this? I am curious
I like this idea.
Sure!
Sounds good. But how?

What do u think?
This concept is new and quite interesting


The irregular use of yes/no was mildly annoying. Just use yes or no.

Ohhhhhh !  


This is so interesting ! A big thank you for the share !   
Experience
Profit Copilot on YouTube does daily vids. 
Can you draw from your own experience, work with clients that can be attributed how you helped them? Generalize across multiple customers?
Why don't you post your own facts and tips? Aren't you an agency? 
I subscribe to a few newsletters like emarketer.
linked in learning, think with google news letter, google best practices newsletter and basically all of the biggest online marketing podcast are good 
Moz are good and also social examiner 
Zest.is
Follow, neil patel's youtube videos


I remember the lonely feeling and often frustration about which direction to take. All I can say is don't spread yourself to thin but keep testing other channels as part if your core activity and enjoy every minute of having the authority to shape the whole confection.






• Careful planning (calendar, marketing calendar, status/ project mgmt. sheet).

• GTD

• Pomodoro


• [Meetup.com](https://Meetup.com)

• LinkedIn Groups

• Vistage (Peer advisory for execs.)

Keep us posted on the chat group!
Been this way for 7 years. I feel your pain 😞
Pretty much story of my life, been doing everything from blogging, SEO, landing pages etc. Feels like i'm running a marathon x2 everyday. But a slack channel would be great to help each other with new marketing strategies, growth etc. I think a slack channel is a pretty good idea, would be down to join :) 
I'll join. 
I was solo doing all the online stuff for a long time. It teaches you which aspect of digital you like the best though.
Do you have any agency which is helping w/ execution? Each of those things can be a full-time employee responsible for them.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Would also be down to join a slack channel for us marketers.
Interested!
I am in!  

I started off as an affiliate doing SEO & PPC (did that 5 years).


&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Interested in the group for sure
Same here. But awesome learning curve. Let's see where it goes from here. 

About the group though, it's really cool idea. I am in!
[deleted]
There's a lot to learn even as a Marketing major, assuming you find a good program that fits your own interests. I learned a lot about consumer behavior, campaign ideation/creation, persuasive writing, and parts of the research process in the marketing classes I took while majoring in Communications.

I think a traditional marketer can easily make a transition to digital marketing. 
Strategic planning. Web design and development will be commoditized for the most part in the next decade. Data and insights that drive the direction of a business through digital has much more staying power and value long term. 
Hands-on will always be your best bet for marketing. Outside of that classes in business management, financial and those area are smart because understanding the business and how to make it money will make you standout from those who just understand marketing but nothing of the business.,
Take digital marketer classes online, get certified, take action!

I use both degrees everyday and agree you can avoid marketing. 
Crying usually.



Everything else is 3rd.

Biggest waste of time,  refreshing stats.


I do! I do have some help with website , once our content writer sends us info, my media person goes on and makes updates 


1) Pull open my marketing calendar as soon as I get in and see what’s going out for the day , program emails ( I run our email campaigns to) 

2) make some social media posts depending on what content I have 

3) make website updates 








probably the most valuable of these is backlink outreach. backlinks are king for SEO and our referral traffic from backlinks converts at a pretty high rate. but, in order to earn relevant backlinks you need good content. so these go hand in hand.

I am a solo digital marketer for 3 small companies, just starting and learning. Right now I spend the most of the time on SEO updates, SEO monitoring, SEM- Adwords, Google Merchant. For a webshop, google merchant seems to be working. Now my plan is to focus on email marketing, newsletter, reviews etc etc. Then I finally have to move with ebay, amazon and then all the social media marketing , posts, comments, engaging with people...There have been a lot of setting up recently. I know I probably should be doing everything at the same time , especially social media. I would actually prefer to hire a social media professional, who can give advice regarding, campaigns, content, engaging, directing the crowd to website and motivating for sales... Damn, this kind of field is SO much work. I am just learning so if you guys have any suggestions please feel free!!!

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

For you simple and small tricks.

3. Don't ignore the other channel start preparing side by side 

Thanks
Working as Assistant Manager Digital Marketing in a medium size software house, I also do the same but I have a team including Content Writers, Social Media Experts and PPC Specialists. I also do coordinate with Dev Team to create new pages, improve site performance and many more. 

The highest value activity for me is to do Keyword Research and Analysis that takes a lot of time and require expertise too. Also I do work audit including site audit, colleagues work report checking and prepare reports accordingly.   

It really depends on your companies goals and challenges. Most have similar goals of increasing revenue, more leads, etc. But the challenges also give a good picture of how to spend your time. Ours was a brand visibility issue and attracting the right buyers. 

So for me, content marketing, account based marketing, and paid ads would be big avenues. In between other things like email marketing, social media marketing, etc. come into play too. 

Content. There will be more and more importance for quality content in digital marketing. So, every digital marketer will be forced to spend majority of time on content going forward.

Another important point - it is not about only creating tons of content; It is about creating quality content , content customization as per customer persona, different forms of content suitable for distribution channels, creativity in content creation to hook up the customers. 

There will be multiple activities depending on various factors, but the central point is going to be Content. 

My highest value activity is analyzing and interpreting campaign data. If you're spending a lot of time creating content you need to know what the effect of that content is, so you need everything tracked and attributed as much as possible so you can decide for yourself if it's worthwhile and what aspects of it are most effective.

To have vast knowledge of all of this is great but if you specialize in Tires and someone asks you to fix the chip in your windshield you likely may have an idea but you are not the most qualified person to ask. 



My best advice is to have a wide scope of knowledge but to specialize in one particular thing you can get really good at. 



As for getting experience, volunteer, intern, freelance for small businesses and non-profits. Do whatever you can to get some hands on experience. That will help you more than any book or class. 

Good luck!
You might want to do affiliate marketing or, better yet, sell your own digital products (e-books, for example)  through a site you use as a PORTFOLIO SHOWCASE or CASE STUDY for you a future job or Joint venture proposition...

  
Practice and hone your craft daily and PRODUCE RESULTS

  

  
Cut your teeth on Amazon product affiliate pages or you can sell your own ebooks. The latter is actually quite cheap because there are book writers you can retain on Upwork / Freelancer or Fiverr. You can also try cheap niche-specific ghostwriters like the writer Gene Eugenio who would write original books for $27 (as long as they fit a narrow range of niches he specializes in). The upside to cheap niche specific writers is obviously their cost but the downside is their tight focus on specific niches.

  
to me the most important factors in a successful marketing campaign are the right use of hashtags and a lot of engagement with the followers
Thanks for this post! Any advice on how to find the right hashtags?
  

Digital marketing means marketing of products or services using various digital technologies, mainly on the Internet, but can also include mobile phones, display advertising, and any other digital medium.

I agree with you I also never seen people who have the designation "**Internet Marketing**". Digital Marketing is a combined body of  **SEO**(Search Engine Optimization), **SEM**(Search Engine Marketing), and **SMM**(Social Media Marketing). There is one more hidden **SMS**(Social Media Sharing). Some peoples also Include **PPC**(pay per clicks) to ***Digital marketing***. 

&#x200B;

Internet Marketing is a New **WORD** for defining a Whole Internet Marketing. In Short, we can say that "***Internet Marketing"*** and "***Online Marketing***" is Just a synonymous of "**Digital Marketing"**
No, Internet marketing is just a synonym of Digital marketing.

&#x200B;
Big difference

the first rule of digital marketing is you don't talk about digital marketing
I'd like to propose a set of Rules for Digital Marketing (Agency Edition)

1) The creed of a planner: RFP, Powerpoint, billing

2) See what worked then adjust the goalposts

3) Readers are sheep and any minor change to the website will result with them wandering off the page (to complain on twitter)

4) Without your clients, you are nothing (see 6)


6) Client happiness is the only metric which counts

7) The plan is only as good as the product (and screenshot quality of the RFP's)

8) We aren't crabs in a barrel (excluding the account team), we're dolphins in a pub 

9) The rules change frequently and often, but the game remains the same... is a fancy way of saying that you'll be working in Excel most of the day

Why is Clickfunnels garbage? (Newbie here)
Number 6. So hard to convince clients of that.
**These 10 rules will help you build a base that will be useful to your customers, to your brand.**

**1. Listen:** Succeeding in social networks and content marketing requires listening more and speaking less. Therefore, read the online content of your target audience and participate in discussions to learn what is important to your followers. Only then you can create content and generate conversations that provide them with something valuable. 

**2. Focus your attention:** It is better to specialize in two or three networks to be inefficient in all. With a content marketing strategy to build a brand you have more opportunities to succeed than with one that pretends to be everything for everyone. 

**3. Produce less but quality contents:** It is better to have a few thousand online connections that read, share and discuss your content with their own audiences, than 1,00,000 connections that disappear after connecting with you for the first time. 


**5. Create unique content:** The audiovisual experience and the generation of exemplary texts are the basis for mastering online spaces. If you publish great and quality content and you work to build an audience of first rate followers - exemplary people who follow you and care about you - they will share it with their circles on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, their own blogs and more. . Sharing and discussing your content opens new access points for search engines such as Google to locate it using keywords. 

**6. Be influential:** Take time to find out who (in your market) are the most popular, followed and heard online. Connect with these people and work to build relationships with them. If you step on their radar as an authority or as a relevant source of useful information, they may share your content with their own followers, which could put you and your business at the forefront of a huge new audience. 

**7. Add value:** If you spend all your time on social networks directly promoting your products and services, people will stop listening to you. These tools are based on the ability to maintain an interesting conversation. Add value to your talk by creating fabulous content and developing relationships with those who exert influence online. Over time, these people will become catalysts of word-of-mouth marketing.

**8. Make them recognize you:** You would not ignore someone who approached you in person, so do not do it online. Building relationships is one of the most important elements when it comes to the success of marketing in social networks, so always respond to every user that approaches you. If you are cordial and participative in the dialogue with your client, he will recognize and divulge your brand through his own channels. 

**9. Become accessible:** Do not publish your content and then disappear. Stay available for your audience. That means you need to post content and participate in conversations consistently. Online followers can be fickle and will not hesitate to replace you if you disappear for weeks or months. Precisely, social media serves to satisfy the need for communication and to ensure the presence of the brand at all times. Your voice must be available at every moment that is required. 

**10. Share content from others:** You can not expect others to share your content and talk about you if you do not do the same for them. A part of the time you spend on social networks should be used to share and talk about what others publish. This diversifies your information offer and satisfies the need for disclosure of your audience, guaranteeing your loyalty.

&#x200B;

Thanks.



I work on our website (CMS), all our email marketing and marketing automation, our social media platforms, salesforce , our CRM . I also use tools built into our email marketing platform to analyze trends and data and show click throughs / conversions .... in a vacuum i do a lot of different pieces that all tie in together 

As a full stack marketing for small business it’s interesting to hear perceptions on this for sure!

My perspective is that a full stack agency understands the strategy and how things link together.


So whereas you may find the most amazing google ads manager, if they don’t understand that there’s a landing page issue and the copy in the email that sends out your lead magnet is off, or that the voice in your social doesn’t match that in your ads - you won’t be optimizing your brand impact.

My 2 cents! 
Typical agency fees for paid media management is 15-20% of spend. The price varies and can drop down to just 10%, but the 15-20% is typical. Usually Google campaigns are priced closer to 15% and social is closer to 20%. Anything is else is usually $125-250/hour. I'm happy to help you navigate this world. It can be overwhelming sometimes. 
In my experience I've found that it's better to use someone or some businesses that specializes in a certain part of digital marketing. 



Facebook guys are Facebook guys. AdWords girls are AdWords girls. Content marketing Peeps are just that. 


Full service for AdWords, to me, would mean development of landing pages (priced out per platform as different codes are more cumbersome to work with), site backups on your hosting, content writing, and management of the campaign. I would set limits as to what full service means in the contract. All encompassing... up to x-many hours per month. 




Good luck!
[Domain White Pages](http://domainwhitepages.com/) Helps me find the contact info of a domain name owner (if they haven't paid extra for privacy)




[Hubspot](https://hubspot.com) Is my favorite CRM. It also has a great blog with tons of learning material

[SEO Quake](https://www.seoquake.com/index.html) is an add on for Firefox that helps me see approx traffic to a webpage and their sources, also shows a keyword density analysis and other useful page info


[Product Hunt](https://producthunt.com) helps me find cool, new tools and projects people are publishing. Tons of tools for digital marketers and sales people. Also, if you have a project that you need more users on, Product Hunt is the place to publish your project.

[Think With Google](https://www.thinkwithgoogle.com/) A great blog with tons of marketing ideas

&#x200B;

[SEM Rush](https://www.semrush.com/) is amazing for all aspects of SEO

[SiteSpect](https://www.sitespect.com/) if you're at a company with high traffic. Best way to A/B test or MVT site changes.

[HootSuite](https://hootsuite.com/) great for organizing and scheduling social posting.

Google Analytics for understanding how people behave on your website.
* Trello - Work Management
* Funnelytics - Create & Manage Funnels.
* Sendgrid - Emails
* Evernote - Notes & Tasks
* Linktree - Instagram Links
* Buffer - Social Media Management
* Agile CRM
* Softscotch Digital Marketing Tools - Calculate Advertising Formulas | Calculate ROI | Compare Digital Marketing Benchmarks | Compare Email Benchmarks.
Semrush and Screaming Frog. Trello for simple project management. 
Extensions: SimilarWeb, whatruns, Google Analytics, SEO Quake


Analytics
Here are few of mine Semrush, Google analytics, keyword planner, Moz, backlinkprofiler, twitter deck, domain authority checker, Ahref, Screaming frog.

&#x200B;
Twitter and LinkedIn. Engaging content there pulls in customers I’d never would have had a thought, or opportunity, to contact.
[SpyFu](https://www.spyfu.com) & [iSpionage](https://www.ispionage.com/) for competition research 

[Moz](https://www.moz.com) & [CognitiveSEO](https://cognitiveseo.com) for SEO 

[Builtwith](https://www.builtwith.com) for Lead Generation 

[OxyLeads](https://oxyleads.com) for prospecting
  

Google Analytics, Webmaster, Google Trends, Awesome Screenshots are some of my favorite digital marketing tools. 

-



Adobe Creative Cloud: I use Photoshop, Premiere Pro, Auditions, InDesign, Illustrator regularly (in that order).


Apple iTunes Podcast Developer Account: Free account I set up for podcast distribution.

Bitly: URL shortener and link tracking tool.
[See also: Google Analytics URL Builder]


Emojicom: Neat little survey tool that can be implemented on your website. Ask simple questions and get answers in the form of emoji. I wish it was more feature-rich, but I switch it on from time to time to get quick feedback on a new feature. Can be implemented on individual pages or the entire site.

Epidemic Sound: Royalty-free / copyright-claim-free music library that provides high quality audio for use in YouTube videos.

Facebook Ads: Our biggest advertising platform - we have a budget of around £300/day.

Facebook Chat Plugin: A chat plugin for your website that lets visitors message you on Facebook Messenger instantly, without having to leave the website. If they choose to leave the website after sending the message, we can still respond to them on Facebook.

Facebook Pixel Helper Chrome Extension: This will seriously help you to troubleshoot and test the Facebook Pixel when you're implementing it. Seriously, if you don't have Facebook Pixel installed, I don't know how you'll ever have a successful Facebook advertising campaign.

FIO Chrome Extension: Replaces all new tabs with a time-zone visualisation that makes it easy to see different time-zones compared to your own. Great when working with worldwide colleagues / third-parties.

Firetext: A digital text messaging service that can be integrated with Zapier (see below) to produce automated update messages for customers.

Flume App: This app allows you to create Instagram drafts, post Instagram drafts (manually), respond to comments and respond to user messages all within a Mac App (no requirement to use the Instagram app on mobile phone). Highly recommended for businesses, and extremely useful for companies with large quantities of customer service messages to respond to. Prone to crashing, has numerous bugs, can't view/post Instagram Stories, isn't perfect, but still super helpful.


Google AdWords: Advertising platform.

Google Analytics URL Builder Chrome Extension: Allows you to add UTM tags to a URL as well as shorten using Bitly all in the browser and then auto-copies to your clipboard. Saves me so much time, it's unreal.


Google Keyword Planner: Lets you plan Google marketing campaigns as well as which keywords to better utilise on your website (SEO).



GSuite: A more powerful version of Google’s free software. I'm on the fence with this one, but I thought I'd add it anyway. What do you think? Worth it?

Hootsuite: I literally only use this for LinkedIn post scheduling. Come on LinkedIn, get on the f***in' ball and let us schedule posts.




SEMRush: I love this tool, but I'll be perfectly honest, I don't have the time to go through it as much as I should. One of my colleagues does this for me.

SocialBlade: Go on SocialBlade and add your competitor Instagram accounts (if they're already on there, it's because they're either monitoring themselves, or someone else is monitoring them too!) If they're not currently on SocialBlade then there'll be no data, but you've added them so the data will start rolling in. This will help you see how they grow their Instagram account (follow for follow? batch follow and unfollow? organic?).

Stitcher: Helps to publish podcasts to multiple platforms autonomously.

Soundcloud: Allows Stitcher to distribute podcasts across multiple platforms autonomously.

Trello: A kanban-style to-do list / project management tool. I add stuff to it, and then never check it. I enjoy going back after months and being like, "Oh yeah, I was supposed to do that... oh well."



WhatsApp Business: Get customer permission to use this - you will need a phone, SIM card (because WhatsApp Business can't be run from an email address - wtf), Google Contacts (if using Android phone). Don't spam your customers - they can report you and block you (you won't be notified with either. If they say STOP, remove them from Google Contacts and remove them from your WhatsApp. I could talk about WA Business all freakin' day, but simplest tricks are set up Broadcasts (be really f***in' careful you don't select Group), send infrequently, don't be too salesy.

YouTube: This is a serious marketing tool if you a) have a good camera, b) have a good subject to talk about, c) have a good editor, d) post content regularly, e) remember to focus on SEO, f) create videos 7-10 mins long, g) have a good personality presenting the info.



-

Hope this helps everybody!

Not sure what to do tho...
Completely agree... 


I'm at the beginning of my self-taught digital marketing journey and I can say that all that 'buzzword listicle' noise that surrounds the industry can be frustrating for sure. 

[deleted]
who
Bill is an SEO OG. Not the most exciting speech I’ve ever seen, but he’s smart, hardworking and comes to accurate conclusions about effective ways to promote a business online. I’ve seen him speak at a conference or two in the past.
Do you mean Bill Slawski?
[removed]
good post
Solid advice. 
Thanks for your information, it's useful to beginners.
Thanks for your information. It is very informative for beginners

HourGlass IT Solutions: www.hourglassit.com/digital-marketing-services
Contact us for more details
Super helpful, thanks!
That's great nicely curated 👍
I think twitter and LinkedIn will be better for any beginner.
Social media channels are great for promoting your business online. This way your product reaches your target audience and you have a higher success rate of getting them onboard. For more info, visit: https://www.viralbao.com/social-media-promotions/blogs/top-social-channels-to-boost-your-business

Gather data on the webpages people are visiting 

> ...and interpreting the reports as quickly as possible...  

This can't be learned by reading, only by doing.
Do you mind giving us a salary ballpark? Congratulations!!
Do you know how long it takes for digital teams to develop a banner ad or a web page or create an app, etc?
I've been a digital coordinator for 5 months for a national company with 90 locations. I can give you advice, are you working in house or for an agency? 
Facebook Blueprint (free)
Google Digital Garage (free)
Sill Share 
Udemy offers free and paid course in a variety of subjects including digital marketing. Also, GenM helps you find an internship/mentorship while learning about digital marketing for free.
Nick Peroni’s Ecom Empire is great. Ecomempire.co
Go through Googles free Academy for Ads courses
https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/

What area of digital marketing are you looking to go in to specifically? I might be able to mentor/give you access to some courses 
Seth Hymes' course is pretty good. It's $100

But I feel sometimes it is also important to connect with real life person. 
Agreed. More than anything get yourself a mentor. That is far more important than learning everything

I suggest affiliate marketing or dropshipping as the easiest things to get into.

&#x200B;

Best of luck.


**SEO:** Moz, Distilled, SEOGadget, Search Engine Land

**PPC:** PPC Hero, Search Engine Land

**Social Media:** Social Media Examiner, Social Media Today

**Content:** Hubspot
I too am interested in this advice.
1- Pick an area (Social media, paid ads, seo, email, etc...) 

2- learn how to do it well if you don’t know how

3- put together a quick site and some packages

4- start letting people know the service you are offering


If you're good with strategy part, go for social media strategy. 

If you are good with numbers, for for analytics and insights. Like Google analytics, social media analysis, reports.
Great points. I follow most, but not all, of them! I will check those out. 
Hubspot has a great blog and newsletter on these topics.
I don't follow anything because most of the people talking are either talking common sense or don't know what they are talking at all. 

That said, i usually read an article or 2 from search engine journal. 
Following.


Here’s what I’ve found to be helpful:

Social media: social media examiner podcast and Facebook page

SEO/email marketing/web: Neil Patel (I like his YouTube videos)


Paid training: Boot Camp Digital (Full disclosure - I did some work with them. But I’m a big fan of their program.)

Online Community: Reddit 

One thing I did that I found helpful is to look for big marketing conferences and check out the speakers. If any of their bios speak to you, check out the content they post online. You might find their community helpful.

OK, I have lots of thoughts about this!

[https://blog.hubspot.com/](https://blog.hubspot.com/) (This is where I learned a lot of what I do. HubSpot is a fantastic resource.)

[https://contentmarketinginstitute.com/blog/](https://contentmarketinginstitute.com/blog/) (CMI's blog is a must-read.)

[https://www.impactbnd.com](https://www.impactbnd.com) (Full disclosure, I'm the Director of Web & Interactive Content at IMPACT, but our sole focus as a publisher is digital marketing news, insights, and expertise. That's the only reason I'm mentioning it.)


[https://itunes.apple.com/ca/podcast/call-to-action/id961168554?mt=2](https://itunes.apple.com/ca/podcast/call-to-action/id961168554?mt=2) Call to Action Podcast by Unbounce



[https://www.amazon.com/They-Ask-You-Answer-Revolutionary/dp/1119312973/](https://www.amazon.com/They-Ask-You-Answer-Revolutionary/dp/1119312973/) (This book blew my mind when I first read it, and I still recommend this to every single digital marketer I meet who hasn't read it; it's that important.)

[https://www.amazon.com/Inbound-Content-Step-Step-Marketing/dp/1119488958](https://www.amazon.com/Inbound-Content-Step-Step-Marketing/dp/1119488958) (Just a great tactical book on creating inbound content in a way that's sustainable and also in-line with what's working today. Justin Champion really knows his stuff.)

Other books I'd recommend:

[https://www.amazon.com/Killing-Marketing-Innovative-Businesses-Turning/dp/1260026426/](https://www.amazon.com/Killing-Marketing-Innovative-Businesses-Turning/dp/1260026426/)

[https://www.amazon.com/Everybody-Writes-Go-Creating-Ridiculously/dp/1118905555/](https://www.amazon.com/Everybody-Writes-Go-Creating-Ridiculously/dp/1118905555/)

[https://www.amazon.com/Epic-Content-Marketing-Different-Customers/dp/0071819894/](https://www.amazon.com/Epic-Content-Marketing-Different-Customers/dp/0071819894/)

[https://www.amazon.com/Content-Inc-Entrepreneurs-Successful-Businesses/dp/125958965X/](https://www.amazon.com/Content-Inc-Entrepreneurs-Successful-Businesses/dp/125958965X/)

&#x200B;
You can subscribe to Google Best Practices email list, that's pretty helpful [https://getsubscriptions.withgoogle.com/newsletter/best-practices/signup](https://getsubscriptions.withgoogle.com/newsletter/best-practices/signup)

&#x200B;

I also like Hannapin Marketing's webinars and other resources. Also, a few to follow on Twitter: Larry Kim, Rand Fishkin, JD Prater
Following this!
Digitalmarketer.com

Social Minds by Social Chain is great. 

  
Skill share is worth a look if you want to learn and explore more digital marketing skills.
I am currently subscribed to Hubspot, Search Engine Watch, SEO Hacker and Backlinko. All of which send out both quality articles and sometimes some utter rubbish. However it let's me see the industry from a range of different perspectives and lets me see what other people are doing. 
I personally like {grow}, Mark Schafer's blog. It's a mixture of inspirational and educational stuff but some of the articles have affected how I approach a marketing problem or made me consider a different strategy. Also very fun/easy to read.
I Google and individually select sources for each topic. Haven't found a specific sources I would prefer.
Hubspot and Google ads and analytics 
Not free, but check out **RedditGuru.com**

Your mind will get blown 
Check backlinko for SEO


I signed up for a 30 day trial on audible and downloaded Garry V’s “Crushing it” book. It’s a trove of information about social media marketing that I find fascinating. 
Well there are plenty of online courses for Digital Marketing, but as you are asking for Free courses, so the best destination would be YouTube. You can find lot of free tutorials and videos there on Digital Marketing.
Hubspot, Udemy, Academy for ads and YouTube ...etc are the best websites to learn digital marketing...
Google text ad spend decreasing but dynamic search ads and responsive search ads increasing. 

More conversational marketing
Really interesting insights. Thanks for sharing OP. It has got me excited to be honest.
Thanks for the sharing.....

As someone working in the industry for (maybe too) many years this year's trend seems to be going back to basics.

As everyone is competing for the best ad palcement, if you don't get it you have to start making the most out of what you get so making campaigns things that are actually good and engaging while making the most out of what you have will be the "trend".

&#x200B;

That an personalisation through behavioural tareting using predictive analytics to create these campaigns in the first place..haha
 

*- DuckDuckGo outpacing other search engines in terms of growth, but still relatively small* 

&#x200B;

Local ads in GMB and maps. Bar and restaurants will have to utilize these. 
Geolocational marketing. I know it can be "scary" for some people, but pulling up to a gas station and getting a notification for deals or coupons based on frequent purchases is awesome. 
Voice activated ads. This has has a lot of potential for brands to communicate on a whole new level.


well, if you are experienced enough to take everything with a grain of salt. For example I do SEO\\content marketing and wonder how YouTube marketing works -so I go to Udemy to get a high level overview. At the end of the day is all about practice, not watching courses. But they do help with directions and some frameworks
These marketing courses are like 1000$, whereas udemy is like 9$. Curious to know too because I can code pretty well and have lots of in the technical side of things

I wouldn't say blow thousands but take some online or local classes when you can.  Some places offer free HTML/CSS classes and such.  Even if you learn one new thing that makes you that much better at what you do!


I’ve taken a couple other ones, and the best thing I’d say is to look around on YouTube for the kind of marketing you want to learn about. There’s a lot of free info to help you out, and a couple people that stand out are cereal entrepreneur and Ruan Marinho for not flaunting wealth and providing lots of good content. Cereal does a lot of social media marketing and Ruan is more focused on SEO. (Pretty sure Cereal’s course features Ruan for some SEO training)


If you’re looking at affiliate marketing, be warned that people like to flaunt and be showy about what they’re making and doing. Buuut some good people nonetheless would be ODi Productions, Marissa Romero, Affiliate Marketing Dude, and Franklin Hatchett. Franklin Hatchett has a good video on making an affiliate website for free with Wordpress & driving some free traffic to it to bring in some extra cash quickly. I have followed it and set up the sites, but haven’t actually put in the time to write the articles and drive traffic as I’ve been busy on working on other things. 

TLDR: Check out the SWEPS checklist on cereal entrepreneur’s website for a good starting point and Ruan Marinho’s channel for some SEO basics and easy to implement tips. Then do some more of your own research on what aspects you like and want to learn more about. It all depends on what direction you want to go in.

And be sure to take my and others advice with a grain of salt - I’m not sponsored but a lot of people are just peddling not-so-good products for a quick buck.
Answer could be 'Yes' & answer could be a 'No' too because at the end of the day you would be only responsible for your growth. 

There are many institutes you will teach you everything related to digital marketing as per their pre-defined courses & lectures.  But it will totally depend on you that how much are you grabbing that knowledge. 

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Good luck !!!

&#x200B;
Anything I want to learn, I check udemy first 

IF

You are the type of person who can improve yourself through watching videos online. 

IF

You are the person who takes things you learn and put it into action.

Then yes. They are worth it. But, you will only learn where to start. The real learning comes from using it, day in and day out. 

you can get some free and paid courses on udemy. watch them and make your base of concepts strong then start doing practical by your own.
Amazon Advertising will make it a three-way ads race along with Google and Facebook. 
Voice search will be huge. It's reshaping SEO. 

Google's micro-moments include  I-want-to-know moment, I-want-to-go-moment, I-want-to-buy moment  and  I-want-to-do moment . You can track this customer behavior with Google Maps, YouTube, Amazon, etc.
 


2. More Paid Advertising: Because of the above, people who have strayed from paid ads will begin to delve into them. Because of the saturation, many will have to pay to play.
3. Chatbots: will continue to grow in popularity and usage cases.
4.  These days, social media is the new arena of digital marketers, as 3.3 billion people are active social media users.  So, more billions of users in 2019
5. Voice Search which is considered as main. More people use voice search devices like Alexa and many more. 
Digital marketers who look for underserved markets can make millions and millions of pounds/dollars. 

Keywords will still matter. 
Voice search and chat-bot appliances with visual display become more common and ubiquitous in the home and out of home as well.


Links will be still important as well as extremely well-researched content. Here I can add the trend for video content for sure.
higher cost per clicks on google.
Video content 
Sounds like you have a junior role with a company that has a lot of red tape.


It's all air-time.
Bigger corporate companies or younger companies running out of liquidity are gonna be running scared. Younger companies with good cashflow will let you test and run freely. SEO is the scariest thing for bigger companies because attribution is very difficult and if they dont understand it they're going to be skeptical. 
What are you doing to optimize SEO in 15 minutes? I've been out of the SEO game for a while but want to start getting back into the swing of things for our website. Where's a good place to become familiar with best, new SEO practices?
"looking for keywords is now a skill."

Client side opinion from my own experience: 


Larger companies want to know the key numbers and how you can add value.


Bigger companies have heard all that shit a bazillion times. And the people you are talking to are a bit more savvy , so the black box of magic routine has no power.

Pitch a plan

Work the plan

Show results
Any chance I could bother you for a bit more info on your toolset and how you put it together? 
Answer this clearly:

- Why you
- Prove it
Play up their pain points (personally and as a business).  




Competitor research. If you attack a certain industry you are doing audits of 10-15 of those companies right?  If a few of them are doing it well already (either with you or independently) talk about that and evoke jealousy or the FOMO on your lead.   

I like to take their presumed keywords (usually their "services offered") and compile a 10-15 word keyword ranking report to show them exactly where they are using FAT Rank (nifty little Chrome extension).   


Also, I'll DM you an SEO audit tool that we made that will give you a \~20 page report so you can look like you did a fuckton of research.
Your current salary + 30% is fairly common; the 30% accounts for you doing your own HR, tax, marketing, etc.

As a day rate, that would be $400.
dont charge for your time. charge for the value you will bring to your clients

* Agree on a project scope, including what you will be and won't be doing. I thought I was designing a website for them, they thought I was writing all of the content, too. Clarify, clarify, clarify.
* Agree on timetables, because if you're not in-house it's very easy to let deadlines stretch out for months longer than you planned.
* Agree on decision makers, making sure you know who you report to and who can greenlight monetary spends. If they aren't clear on that, you'll be in for a world of hurt.



Good luck!
You can do a project based or a hour based contracts. You sound like you have things to offer.

Another model you could try following is a lower base fee (hourly or per-day) + commission on sale generated? But you'll need a good method of tracking that the sale is attributed back to you through the funnel. 

Because the higher the ad spend, the harder it is to get new leads from the same audience.
Commenting to get a clear answer since I’m curious as well.

I remember a recent post in this sub asking the same question as you too however so try finding that! It had a ton of helpful comments recommending some great sources!

All the best bud :) 
Try Google Digital Garage, HubSpot Academy & Facebook's Blueprint (also covers Instagram) as starting points.

Once you've figured out from the above which area(s) of marketing interest you most, look for more specialist courses.

Would also recommend if you're not already working in the field, start a simple website to practice what you're learning. Best way to learn (and remember what you're learning) is to start applying the knowledge.


The great thing is Facebook owns Instagram, there is a lot more bang for his buck when he runs ads simultaneously on FB and IG. FB hits a demographic of Millennials and Generation X. While Instagram hits more Generation Z. A good selling point could show him the benefits of running an AD on FB and IG at the same time, while testing you could do a 2 day AD for $20- $50 just to see where the engagement hits. In the long run this will be better for both your client and you when producing more of his ADs. 
Videos and/or Promotion ($x off or x% off first order - they have to show ad to redeem). That will immediately show your client ROI 
I'd explain to him there is no downside to testing Facebook when you're setting up your ads. Try to convince him to do a short test and provide him a side by side report that includes your key metrics so you can make an educated decision.

Use google ads, target location should be a radius of 3-4 miles around the restaurant. Use keywords like "best smoothie near me" or name of the location. 
I find this sub is a lot more questions then answers. You're right though, we should be sharing more. Insights such as our weekly readings or solutions to interesting problems could be a good communal start.
As someone who is just starting in this field, (theoretical knowledge/google certified experience) the behavior you describe is definitely noticeable, and discouraging to participation.


One love

I'd like to know as well
Really love this write-up, including the metaphor! Top one👌🏼
Blasphemy! Heretics!
Awesome piece. 


&#x200B;


&#x200B;

There are hundreds of thousands if not millions of websites all trying to be perfect google angels, when in reality, it is the demons reaping the benefits, faster & quicker.

&#x200B;

I am sure many want to follow the church of Google by its written word, but we all know the real secret for SEO is what is in the dark corners & shadows.   The things the church does not want you to really know.  😉
I like the way you explain everything.keep going




Time to detox your following. Hope this helps. 
Not necessarily, but it helps to keep up on trends, platform updates, etc.
Not all jobs in digial marketing will require you to be involved in much social media. However it is important for a few reasons:

-When you build buyer personas, it's easy to connect and target them on social media strategically.
-Social listening for competitors or what industry people are saying
-Paid social, getting content, resources, products, and services in front of people and building brand awareness.


But you can get more specialized if you'd rather like SEO/SEM, email marketing, marketing automation, Google AdWords, Content Marketing, analytics, or you can do a mix of all. Really depends what you like and are looking to focus on. 
I've worked in social media for about 10 years now, and there's a couple of things to remember here:



3: a coupke of people have already said this, but if you want to be on it personally, use it as a tool for learning. Follow experts in the field of digital (go check out some marketing sites, see who writes fir them, then see who those writers follow). There are still useful, interesting groups of people that you can learn from. You don't have to be putting stuff out yourself if you don't want to though.

You need to be aware of how social is doing, what’s working and engaging, new tech, otherwise your marketing will be dated. 

Use social media with the above in mind, see every post in a sense of marketing and business and how it can impact your marketing campaigns. It makes it less of a drag. :) 
Choose an industry you'd like to enter first, a great way of making a fist impression is going up to local businesses with incomplete/absent Google maps listings and helping them with a quick Google my business account. That way you'll give them a taste of what you can offer and establish value.
Why don't you make some slide presentations about how big companies are dealing with social media and how you can help peoples business with your ability and skills on social media marketing. 

&#x200B;

It would definitely help.
Not to be mean, but who do you think you can help? Do you have professional experience helping these sorts of companies?
Lead with value.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Then follow up with a phone call.

Nothing. Follower count doesn't matter.

Teach local businesses that and use the conversation to open doors.
1. Quality content
3. ...
4. Profit
2. Bring valuable content to your customers
3. Video content
4. Social ads (Linkedin ads, Quora ads)

Hope it will help you in some way!
   1. blast EDM via local publications -- reaching out to their audience base, not yours
   2. you can try guest posting too
3. accelerator programs and pitching competitions
4. feature clients' success stories and ask them to help publicize it
5. LinkedIn groups and LinkedIn articles
Linkedin content

Linkedin ads
What does B2B stand for? Sorry, I’m new in this area.



Digital marketing can mean doing a lot of things, but it mostly runs as a parts of the overall strategy of driving traffic through the funnel to get them to buy the product or service. If the people aren’t ready to buy yet, then the content strategy,including blog posts as part of an SEO campaign, is a great way to build trust with people and makes them more likely to trust and buy from you in the future. Managing paid ads through a variety of different platforms/channels is also a big part of it. There is more advanced and in depth stuff, but I think this is enough information for one post 😅
Advertising things (digital or physical) in the digital era. That’s the gist of it.


We like to consume free content online and the digital marketers use that in their favor. If let’s say you love a cooking YouTube channel or blog and you consume their content the chances of you actually buying something from them is very high.

And differently from big companies, those content creator usually are targeting a very specific niche, so it’s easier to build up confidence and increase the chances of selling their products.
Basically, make people know tour brand, go to your site (to learn about it) or sell product and services online
Hey Fella, 

I am working as Digital Marketer in a US based software house and I am responsible for planning, management and execution of marketing strategies for the assigned brand and day-to-day operations of different marketing functions. 

**My Core Responsibilities & Duties:**

* From SEO Optimization to Social Media Marketing including Paid and Free for Facebook, Twitter, Linkedin, Instagram, Pinterest. 
* Managing and monitoring email marketing campaigns, sending newsletters and other marketing materials.
* Paid Advertising on Google including Google Shopping, Text Ads, Display Advertising 
* Weekly / Monthly reporting on task progress and overall personal progress. 

If you need any type of help or looking for Digital Marketing Expert, then don't hesitate to PM Me. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
I ask myself that question everyday. 

in brief: relationship-based interactions with their customers in the digital domain
Not much.
Connecting the products/services with the buyers that want/need to buy them, via digital technologies.

It is quite simple when you think of it. 


&#x200B;

Hope it helps. 
Digital marketing is branched out into several sub fields.

PPC and SEO guys spend a lot of time looking at spreadsheets.

Content people spend a lot of time writing and researching.

Social media guys also spend a fair amount of time looking at spreadsheets and on social media platforms.

It used to be that people would just have a store and pass out fliers to get customers.  Maybe they would put an ad in the yellow pages, etc... 

Today online presence is the equivalent of owning a store front.  Image your "online brand" as that store.

Digital marketers can do a range of things to create that online presence from building a website that is constantly searchable by google (web building/SEO) to creating a social media presence that is equivalent to fliers and yellow page ads in today's market.  


That's a lot to do if you have an entire business you're trying to run.
We help companies sell there products or services online via promoting them through advertisements on google, facebook, twitter, pinterest, youtube, reddit, snapchat or through seo or email etc.


Best part, you can measure every bit of it. Its all data driven!
What proficiencies do you have now?

There are plenty of local laws for hiring people under 18, but digital marketing is very results driven, so maybe the big companies wont hire you, but someone will (if you have the experience/skillset).

Otherwise, stay in school, run your own campaigns.

If he can do it I’m sure you can too OP! 

He might be worth searching even to get a feel for how he holds himself and speaks :) some of his videos are quite informative - all digital marketing based! :)

Best of luck! Would love to hear from you when you get your first client!! 


Meh there isn’t to much to running a digital agency or working for one.All these people getting degrees in PR and IT are going to be sorry.These skills are the norm whatever you do go for a bigger degree and out of digital agency.Just work at a agency and make some cash and leave.Advertising is a cow catcher nowadays.

So learn the skills online and implement whether helping a local shop or just starting something yourself.
Hi, take a look at my latest article: jakubjuszkiewicz.com/blog/how-to-get-into-digital-marketing

I am 21 years old and have 3 years of experience already
Hey man, depending where you live I know an apprenticeship may be a good route to go down, and if you already have skills then that's even better and increases your chance of getting hired. 

I'm currently on a Level 3 digital marketing apprenticeship, which lasts 13-15 months and results in workplace experience and a level 3 digital marketing qualification with the chance to either remain in full time work or progress onto a level 4 qualification. I'm not really doing it for the qualification too much but rather for the experience that will look good for the future when I'm looking to move forward in my career. Be that moving to a job with more responsibilities and better pay or starting my own agency. After all, the more experience you have the more likely you are to be hired as a freelance digital marketing agent by a larger corporate company. 

&#x200B;

This is always an option however as others have said, just continue learning as much as you can and seize and opportunities that are presented to you. 
My whole life revolves around marketing and digital marketing. From diploma to undergrad in Marketing and recently Masters in Marketing, it really is a great area to consider. Looking at the current marketing trends and digitalisation, the future does look bright. Don't worry about your age, you are starting fresh, try to get into any marketing firm and gain as much experience as you can. Within a few years, you will have the knowledge and confidence to move forward in the field. Age is just a number.

Good luck
Let them know you are willing to go to school for IT and you will have your spot in the light.
Best straight talk in this sub I have read.



Couldn't agree more with this point. I am currently working for a boutique recruitment form as a DM and we are running on a shoe string budget. What kind of organic strategies would you recommend for advertising our services? 
'yes. email it over.'
Great insight for a rookie like myself. How did you originally get into digital marketing??

This is something that you can control though. https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=submit+url+to+google&oq=submit+url+to+google&aqs=chrome..69i57j0l3j5.2106j0j1&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8 or fetch as google in search console. You can give a reasonable time estimate of a couple of hours using either. 

Have you seen [Marketoonist](https://marketoonist.com/cartoons)?

Great list. All the points are spot on, but particularly liked the last one (;
"We can fix the website later, lets just do this AdWords campaign first." 


P.S (IDK HOW TO DO QUOTE STUFF ON HERE)
Not a blog or a podcast, but I love The Daily Carnage newsletter. I start my morning with it every day.

I like Unbounce's blog. Marketing Over Coffee is a solid podcast that helps me stay a little more up-to-date on tech.
KlientBoost.com blog and podcast
Mind your business podcast, adspresso, Jim Fortin Podcast (more mindset)
Found MarketingSherpa recently. A decent source for advanced marketers.
zest.is plugin for Google Chrome
Is there an app you guys use for blog updates or you just subscribe to them all old school?
Learn as much as you can about GA: It will always be valuable.

Find a mentor in this role who can give you weekly feedback. They should say "You handled this like X, and you should have done Y, and here's why." Get good at taking feedback.

Learn the difference between vanity marketing and metrics, and metrics that matter.

Watch Scott Galloway. Dive in head first, and put all of your energy into it.



Beyond learning as much as you can. Network as much as you can online and if you live in a decent size city....in person. Meeting people who work in marketing, data and across a business will help your career. I've gotten many jobs and opportunities by meeting people throughout my career..
Definitely be patient, learn everyday, take feedback, ask everybody with WHY - why we are doing this, why this, why that, and try to make some relationships with the people in the organisation. That's all that matter when you are an intern. Good luck buddy!

Try to learn at least the basics of all, and see what interests you the most. If you can master technical marketing, the pay is significantly better.

If you can do both, you can start moving your way up the ranks fairly quickly. Just start slow and see where the path leads you. 


Ask "why" or "how" a lot. 

Ask your coach or supervisor if you can shadow people from different departments. 

Ask your coach if there's someone in the office who is outstanding and ask that person for their tips. Learn from them. 

Try to figure out what you don't like (it's just as important as discovering what you love!)

To learn as much as you can:

1. Copywriting (check out Ted Nicholas)
3. SEO (backlinks strategy using PR, google news)
4. UI/UX (desktop and mobile)
5. Google Analytics & Google webmaster tools
6. Google DFP
7. Conversion optimization
8. Business metrics (conversion rate/cost/revenue/profit
9. Email marketing
10. Online advertising (search, display, video, native)
Do all the google ads courses, they're free and you learn a lot. Definitely a good place to start. 

Johnroccofreed@gmail.com

I may have some courses you will find valuable. 

No.
You don't. You factor taxes into your hourly or retainer rate. 
Marketing campaigns you’ve worked on, screenshots/PDFs/Print outs of your work. I like to create one-sheets similar to case studies with the problem, my actions, and the results.
I never heard of digital marketers needing a portfolio - is this for your resume or your own agency? I am  not sure you need one - what you need is work experience and growth metrics.
My suggestion: Take a screenshot of the project you are starting to work on (it's Analytics and social media profiles) and compare it with the time when you have worked on the project after a while. that's a great portfolio.
You can create some case studies you have worked on achieved good results, PPT of your work and results.
Hi! HRcat here!

You should present some case studies, reports or analytics about the project you've worked for - it is important showcasing what was **your** part in it! If you had a role in the creative department then adding a great portfolio is a must. 

You can also create great and simple infographics to showcase what you can deliver - or your knowledge about a specific market.  

You're resume/ portfolio should showcase what attributes or skillset you bring to the desired company. If you are content oriented, showcase your writing skills. If you are more data-driven and that is your thing - than analytics should do the job.


&#x200B;

Good Luck Meow

That being said, I'll sell you my "Silver Bullet Secrets of Digital Marketing 2019" eBook for $997 (regularly $4997) if you really want. Your results are guaranteed!

/s
Not telling.
No secrets, all tools are publicly available. Not like you have to be on a special list to pay a software company to use their tool.

Tealium

I don't think there are secret tools, but clients don't need to know every little detail so you might not explain everything to them but again that depends on the tools and the client.

Industry side, it shouldn't be any secret because all those companies are selling their products to everyone. Any SaaS tool won't be a secret if you do a Google. 

Real 'secret sauce' might be client focused companies who do develop internal tools and they sure aren't sharing. 

Belated birthday wishes to you
No secret tools, must be secret strategies
Tealium
but about what you are talking here?
The Paypal Money generator. But you didn't hear it from me...
Hahaha
Understanding of data and keeping your ear on the ground.
I'm not connected to them, but Digital Marketer has some awesome training classes for beginner and intermediate level marketers.  I think their $99 per month DM Lab+ includes access to all their main courses (just Google "DM Lab+" as I don't want anyone here thinking I'm using an affiliate link ; )
Lynda.com has a bunch of courses that are awesome. You get a certificate at the end of each that you can reference.

Also, edX.org has some great courses. A lot of them you can go through for free as “audit.” Or choose to pay for the certificate.
Maybe as a copywriter. The skills in sales can be transferred to selling with text. 
One of my customers in my last startup was an over 50 re-training to be a digital marketer. He seemed to be doing fine and was able to get customers from local businesses around where he lived. 

If he can write well, then the rest is learnable. 

I'd recommend taking courses on Udacity or General Assembly but Udemy has some very good Google Ads or Facebook Marketing courses too. Armed with that knowledge and some skill in creating websites on Wix or Squarespace, he could indeed be fine. It'll take some time though.


With the content marketing skills, the ability to put up that content effectively on a digital space, and then to evaluate its performance through data, I’m sure your dad will do great. Hope this helps and hope that he finds a job very soon. All the best!

Sure he can... the most important thing is delivery. If he can gain enough real time experience and can get results nobody would care how old he is.. He should just focus on a particular niche and build up from there




&#x200B;
Might he be interested in selling social media services or website design?  My DMs are open for discussion 

As the boundaries between digital marketing and sales are becoming less and less thin, meaning that companies now ask digital marketers to sell, you dad's sales experience could be proven to be his greatest asset.


3. As other people said here, the easiest most transferable skill would be to use his knowledge of selling into words, that is copywriting. Coupled with direct response advertising he could write copy for marketing agencies.

Unfortunately, the possibilities at digital marketing are endless, and can overwhelm someone. All you have to do is be supportive and explain him his options for that field.




&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
He sure can, I was reading a story recently of an 80 something who makes apps and I thought that was awseome.
Unless you are an analyst you won’t need to know any language. It’s good to know if you are, it’s a nice to know if you aren’t.

Also, what do you mean you are learning R to replace tableau? R is an object-oriented programming language. 



Getting certifications will help too like with Google Analytics and AdWords. It’ll show you have initiative to try but now just need the hands on experience. 

Good luck!
I’m in a similar boat, looking to transition to digital marketing from sales, taking courses and getting google ads/analytics certified in spare time but having trouble bootstrapping real experience for resume. I’m looking forward to responses. 

Good luck and congratulations on the forthcoming addition!
I did this. 
Would highly recommend looking into any and all internship opportunities in your area of interest. Some, if not most internships are paid these days and are offered to pretty much anyone regardless of education/experience. 

Also - find a great mentor that is doing exactly what you see yourself doing and learn from their experiences. 

Good luck! 
Any interest in growth hacking, outbound email marketing/copywriting and automation tools?
Does your team need a Leroy Jenkins? ... I can be your Leroy Jenkins.
Ann is more like a melee dps with only one focus: to sell. Rogue is more suitable for her.

Amusing post,btw.
Was looking for hilarity as boss realizes the team he/she joined played WoW all night and stumbled in to work barely functioning. 
That's a great way of looking at it! Which one gets blamed for wipes?

Thanks



While you’re job hunting, build your own website so you can have something to show. I’d never take a candidate seriously who didn’t have at least a one page site.


- Maintain website content (CMS) 
- Build and maintain email marketing campaigns 
- Coordinate marketing collateral materials for conferences with cross functional departments
- create marketing plans and timelines 

I would try to get in doing email marketing (that’s what I did) or as a Marketing Coordinator ... once you get the foot back in the door you’ll get all the exposure .. I started as a specialist and moved up. ..
 
Definitely look at the Facebook blueprint courses. While you don’t need to take the exams (as each cost $150 and you need to take the core + either planning or buying exam), the online, free courses are helpful to understand strategies and basic terms for Facebook as quite a bit could have changed in two years.
I'm always so cautious of spending all this money on classes you think you need to be successful in digital marketing. It just isn't the case.. The internet is such an amazing source for anything, ESPECIALLY learning. And honestly, the BEST knowledge you can get, is just by doing it yourself. There is a difference in being taught what you THINK you need to know, and what you *actually* need to know.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;


1. VERY familiar with FB Ads Manager.
3. Google AdWords for your PPC. 
4. Photoshop for making your own ad creatives and graphics for whatever.

Don't go for certifications. Best way to learn is just to do it & deploy campaigns. Employers want folks who could deliver value. Try volunteering at a non-profit in your spare time if you need experience.
I think with already skills you can become a designer.
Every employer defines the roles different. None of these are good for a new employee in the industry.


Strategists - does the research and helps identify who we are targeting and why and how that group will convert (short version)

Consultant - can do all of these or none depending on the level on consulting.


Feel free to PM if you have any other questions.
Usually all the roles are played by one and that is digital marketer. A digital marketer is a consultant because He/She gives advice or consult the clients about benefits of digital marketing and Digital marketing strategies are also prepared by digital marketer. In the end, Digital marketing activities are also handled by Digital marketer. In most companies this is the scenario but you can find in few companies that they assign these roles to different people.

&#x200B;

This are different names used by companies based on their internal structure, strategist position is for someone who is hands on guy, while manager would manage team of strategist and manage the risk/reward generated by their work.

While consultant is normally external who i not employed on payroll he is paid for the hours or task done.  But as said it depends on companies to companies how they read and define titles.
As a few people have said those titles are a little more experienced than a beginner.  However, titles are so personal to the company that I rarely look at them (except to see if the word marketing or digital might be in there somewhere.)

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

And don't worry too much about the "digital" title. There are a few specialist titles for beginners like Social Media Assistant etc. Depends what your speciality (if you have one) is and most marketing jobs have at least an essence of "digital" these days. 

Facebook is cancer.




I've talked to Google reps and they don't care. 
When it comes to mobile apps (like the calculator) CTR is high since people click it by mistake scrolling or trying to close the ad. You'll probably have really high bounce rates and if you're tracking landing page loads these will likely be a lot lower than the number of clicks. 
You’re smart to be skeptical of bad sites/apps, bots, etc. And It’s not just a GDN phenomenon. Good marketers are the ones paying attention and constantly updating their exclusions. Don’t expect any ad tech platform to protect you — be proactive.
Short answer, yes. Can't rely on Google whatsoever to eliminate waste. 
To me, a digital marketing progression imho: 1. has experience in developing, creating, and managing individual digital marketing platforms (adwords/fb, etc) to achieve a variety of outcomes 2. 1 + analyzing the data from those campaigns to improve them 3. 1+2 + Finds cross platform opportunities between them to achieve cross functional outcomes 4. 1+2+3+ uses the sum of their experiences to understand how digital marketing works on an individual level & cross platform level, eliminating nimieties. 5. Digital marketing strategist can deliver on 1-4 to almost any business
To establish skills for a digital strategist role, Go buy digital marketer lab plus. It comes with a legit course in every digital marketing subject, and to be a strategist you need an understanding of everything.

For PPC related trainings I recommend Surfside PPC : https://youtube.com/channel/UCEzSSbs3Wfe5p4dBzzjrjvw

To analyze your page, I advise MeasureSchool : https://youtube.com/channel/UClgihdkPzNDtuoQy4xDw5mA

Have luck!
Search for 

brian dean,

backlinko

Neil Patel
Search for Nail patel
I’m glad you posted this. I’m in the same boat as you! 
Springboard is an amazing startup that offers high quality training programs. May be something to check out in addition to the more traditional stuff. Awesome benefit btw. 



&#x200B;


 
We use Databox, it lets us set up dashboards with their data showing the relevant metrics per client (each dashboard we custom build.  



We break down sales and engagements by source/medium and if we are running any campaigns, we also include campaign-related data.   
There is only one simple and easy answer just, show the traffic-related report, and don't forget to update the old one and new report. In this ways, Boss/Clients both can understand a progress in an easy way. 


It's totally up to what you and your client are comfortable with. In some cases a flat fee is nice and you'll want to make sure you pay close attention to the time you invest so you're not investing to much. You could also do a percentage of their sales. This is usually more helpful for small businesses and freelancers but it can be dangerous it very rewarding. Lastly you could work based on an hourly rate. 
Each of them have their own way of charging. 

When I was doing freelancing work I used to be paid by the project.   
As soon as the initial steps of the projects are defined and a sensible forecast of the time it's going to take and predictable delays then your employer should come up with an offer. 
Following
Charge based on contract. It depends what you are doing but charging monthly is fairly standard. 
I charge based on results

  

&#x200B;

Results? I get a %
I am working on hourly basis. I am expert in click funnel and facebook power editor.      
Google Adwords 
Google analytics
[removed]
HubSpot / Google Certs (Analytics and as many of the Ad(Words) you can manage) / FB Blueprint are the only ones I’d spend time on.

Sign up for a AdWords account, you’ll soon get a coupon for $100 credit if you can’t find one online, pick a small local business and help them out. Or better, promote your own blog etc - far better experience than just a certification. 
Google Ads, Google Analytics, Google Webmaster

you can also learn Learn from MOZ, SEMrush
hey guys I have stumbled upon hootsuite academy certificates for digital marketing. Are they worth it? 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;


5 years of experience and $15/hour? Are you in the united states? I have 6 years of experience and I won't even get out of bed for less than $60/hour, and that is the absolute minimum. You can command much more.

Also, don't get hung up on titles, it's literally the least important thing you have going on. Call yourself a Digital Marketing Manager and then focus on the benefits you offer the client.
What I am? I also got clearity because of all ans...Thank you all
I work in a fairly large ad agency and I’m actually a hiring manager there. So I look at hundreds of resumes a year and am constantly going through job postings and classifieds for social media employees. “Specialist” is the industry parlance for someone who handles day to day management of social accounts. If you’re looking for the most accurate description for the position, not to mention if you’re trying to optimize your resume and Linkedin account for the job title that hiring managers like myself search for the most — trust me, that’s the title you want to use. 
“Specialist” or “Strategist” would be a better title than “Manager,” unless you actually managed people. 
1. Discuss any particular successes you’ve achieved in digital marketing campaigns, and how you achieved this (e.g. tactics you used for Google Ads, Facebook Ads, SEO). 


3. Which social media experts and digital marketing companies do you follow on Twitter etc. 

4. What type of digital marketing are you most passionate about, e.g. the ‘technical SEO’ side of the scale covering Google Analytics, code etc, or the ‘creative side’, covering online advertising, organic social media campaigns. 

Oh, and if you have some gaps in knowledge, read about it before the interview or if your portfolio doesn\`t look great, try to improve it (replacing cases or explaining them better). 
have you used google ads or fb?

give an example of how you would sell a certain product 


- Have run my own Agency for 5 years and advise smaller agencies on how to succeed 


What would you like to see / learn?
Traffic and conversion summit - it’s amazing 
Ones I have spoken at and enjoyed... sample list:  


BrightonSEO

HeroConf

SMX & SMX Advanced

&#x200B;

Depends on what you are looking to learn of course and what your budget is.
Traffic and conversion in San Diego is awesome. Highly recommended 

I realize that this isn't exactly answering your question about free certifications, but you can take any EdX course for free, then choose to pay for the certification if you like. 
Something I did to get myself into the Marketing space and have a little
You can enroll yourself in hubspot and facebook certification program.
Instead of certification better learn some real use of softwares specially google analytics, google tag manager (basic knowledge will be okay) and facebook ads.
I wouldn’t bother. It’s better to focus in gaining real world experience at this point rather than certificates. Google is definitely worth it though. 


Put together a website to work as your portfolio.


Not more than 5 grams if you're carrying the hard copy, i presume
There are plenty of entry level jobs that are hiring people who are willing to learn, as they should have a training protocol for all new entry level hires. With that said, make sure you learn the basics and show that you are continuing to learn and that this stuff interests you 
* Content, Inc.
* 22 Immutable Laws of Marketing
* Traction (19 ways to build an audience)
* Tribes by Seth Godin

Just do the action you'll learn actual experience that way 
That makes a lot of sense btw.
Trying RankMath on a few sites instead of Yoast. Haven't decided the winner yet though.
You left off Search Console. You use that to see what pages are winning and what terms people are using to get to your site.

I'd run ads to establish name recognition in the market. Then others that specifically say something like "we've sold XXX houses in your area. Yours can be next!"

Then do retargeting of people who click the link to sell their house.
Try the exclude options of the Facebook ads. It will help you to exclude the people who are the real estate brokers or builders.
Use Postal Code/Zip Code targeting to affluent areas or areas of gentrification. Amend the creative accordingly to be specific to that area: "Do you know houses in your area are being sold for £xxx,xxx on average in 2018? Find out how much yours is worth with a free evaluation. Click here to enquire"

That being said, the answer is a lot.
I’m in growth marketing and I’d say executing on campaigns is like 4 hours a day? Rest is just researching and planning for campaigns.
I probably go on Reddit for about an hour a day (as I'm doing right now). However, most of the time I do spend working.
Are you at an agency?  I'm in-house and "slow" doesn't exist.
I constantly feel like I'm behind, so I don't have a lot of slack time. Between creating content calendars, scheduling posts, sifting through campaign and web analytics data, creating graphics, writing proposals,  researching and double checking budgets and ROI, drafting email campaigns, looking at past campaign performance and planning out upcoming campaigns... on top of weekly meetings and keeping other departments out of trouble... my days are full.

I does not count my work in hour on the other hand the results of my work is better parameter.
Absolutely finish. You never know what your future will hold and it's so much harder to go back later in life. Use the remainder of your time there to network and get a good internship, it's all about who you know. 12 years on I'm still somewhat professionally connected to someone I met through my college internship.
Communication works well with \[digital\] Marketing, so consider finishing it.
What have you been using to tech yourself SEM/SEO? I want to teach myself as well but am having trouble finding good content. Any advice/tips ?
I'd suggest you to finish your degree. It is quite relevant to your interest in digital marketing and will help you a lot with developing the right content. Also, some jobs need you to be at least graduate.
I think it is.
Finish it, but be smart about it! Use this time to make as many connections as you can. Look for internships, fellowships and learning opportunities. Get to know your fellow students. Familiarize yourself with the career services office. Go to your professors’ office hours. And of course actually go to class and pay attention.

Finish your degree. You don't know what will happen in the future - you might decide you want to work in a corporate setting in which case not having a degree won't get you far. 

Don't do it, it's not worth it. Apply for jobs, work hard on networking, get experience, that'll put you way ahead of a lot of people.
There's definitely attribution and/or third party ad serving that will help prove in your media, unfortunately, Facebook and Google both are "walled gardens" that only let you see post-click activity/conversion events and not post impression.

The FB reporting pixel I believe will let you also see post impression, however, you would need to define conversion events (form fill, live chat etc) and set up that tracking on your site.
If possible, have you tried Google Analytic attribution model comparisons before? How I can convince clients that awareness campaigns/channels are working is by looking at first click interactions versus last click interactions. Naturally, these awareness campaigns will not show much last click interaction but should show you some decent first click interaction conversions. Hope that helps.
Nice post
You want to look into how Facebook handles view-through conversions. Install the FB pixel and set up your desired conversions; once set up right FB will be able to report how many people who only saw your ad (without clicking on it) later converted. You won’t be able to track on a per person basis though, but it should help you see if you’re having effects.
You can do some of what you're talking about with Assisted conversions, view through and top paths to conversion.

That being said the best value in view through for complete consumer journey are display ads. Not just through GDN but actual tracked and pixeled users who saw and ad and took an indirect action (saw a display ad but later converted thru organic or another channel). The value of enterprise programmatic solutions are that it isn't a walled garden of users like Google and Facebook. With a DMP you can create even more audience and segmentation. 

What's your display/programmatic solution today? Are you using GDN, DBM or something else if any?
[removed]
You could ask your google reps if they have anything, look at google trends yoy or create a specific ppc campaign to capture the specific words in your campaign in your next social media campaign. 

&#x200B;

Good luck.
You're going to have to track your conversions in 3 ways:

&#x200B;

\- Facebook Pixel: this allows you to see facebook conversions (both post click and post impression);

\- Linkedin Pixel: Allows you to see Linkedin Post-impression conversions


&#x200B;

Alternatively you can look into Doubleclick and trafficking your ads with tracking ads. But it will only work if your targeting on Facebook is not based on your custom audiences.
I think the cheapest way to get the best results would be to have a website with the basic info and to focus on GMB. Post frequently (2-4) times on GMB and have a system on place where clients who used your services get an email that ask for reviews. Just that will put them ahead of 95% of the rest of the business.
It depends entirely on the individual business. 


However - if the business does retail and they don't have an omnichannel strategy, that would be something to consider. Again, it depends on the situation.

Bottom line though, if you're seeking this kind of work, repeat business and word of mouth are huge for you, so you'll want to make darn sure you're getting the best ROAS possible.
$1000 only?

I would advise you to create quality content in your niche and promote it on social channels to get more exposure. Try posting guest posts to other quality websites as well. This is not much difficult you would be required to provide them with quality content of about 700 to 1k words and a bit charge like 50 to 100 dollars but it would provide you with good traffic and quality backlinks.
Continuous promotion is one very important if you are looking for more traffic for the business . Connect your business with social media by creating a business page . ( facebook , instagram ) . You can also use paid promotion option on Oscial Media . It is affordable and best way to get traffic . 

ALL THE BEST .
I’d focus on building quality citations and do some email/sms follow up with customers to drive reviews and referrals. Since your constraint doesn’t allow for building a good website I’d do a simple authentic site with wix or another cheap/free builder. Anything left over budget wise I’d use to push special offers and discounts with ppc on google Facebook or yelp (restaurants only for yelp).
You need to fit your marketing strategy to your target audience and the places they hang out with. If you're a doner shop you hit up Facebook with local ads etc.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
You can't really have the phrase "the best marketing strategies" and "$1000" in the same sentence lol. For $1000 I would set up a website the first month and follow up with content marketing the following months for social media exposure and allocate some of that money to boost the content -  all outsourced.
[deleted]
“Just because Google says you should do it, doesn’t mean you should do it.” 

Talking to customers... those always bring the AHA moments. Or customer success if that is not an option.

I've seen employee advocacy time and time again get implemented at companies spending $1m+ paid, and it is a great complement to augment paid with earned media, boost everything you mentioned, and lower your CPL overall. 

&#x200B;

Cheers
Fully optimizing video creative for mobile. Scroll down in this link for the Wells Fargo example with ways we did that & the results. 

I see non-optimized videos on social all the time and I can guarantee it’s affecting their campaign performance. 

https://m.facebook.com/business/news/building-video-for-mobile-feed
Bump!
that I should be charging more.


1) reading customer reviews or forums/groups of the target market to learn their lingo, and their pain points and desires. Someone else said talk to customers so same idea

2) stop going for mainstream interest targeting. Instead of an interest like “golf” where people could follow but not be golfers, target interests that only a golf enthusiast would follow

3) don’t overthink things - sometimes I feel like I could be doing more for a campaign (I guess there’s always more you could do) or I feel like there’s optimizations that I’m not aware of, but the overall process is pretty simple. For example I went through a few courses recently and a lot of the experts taught me everything that I already knew, the basics, and it helped me reaffirm to not overthink the process 



Winging it is a good way to burn through cash you might not have. How many customers can you realistically afford to acquire at $300? Can you float the business with a good chunk of your money tied up in new customers?


I would say for a new business which doesn't/can't know an accurate LTV your ads are profitable if your monthly revenue generated by the ads is greater than your monthly ad spend. 

This may be conservative, but losing money is a tough proposition for all but the most well funded startups. 
You don't. You'll need another way of determining how much you should be spending. 
You rightly told..!!
I would like to take a different approach to the comments that have been put here. For Businesses starting out, looking at the ROAS will kill your development and long term growth. When starting out as a Startup or MVP Product of an SMB, your focus should be shifted from Hard  KPIs to SOFT KPIs: Lead conversion rate, time on page, bounce rates, churn rates, CPO and so on. Setup a 1-3 Year plan to reach a positive ROAS  


Rather then going on a rant I also want to give usable advice. Calculate your CPO (Cost per Order) on the base of your contribution margin. Specifically look at your contribution margin 1 and become profitable on that level.  


\# of Transactions / Total Marketing Cost = CPO  


Contribution Margin 1 = Unit Revenue - Unit Variable Cost  


Your Goal is to Reach a CPO that is lower than your contribution margin 1.   




Another one, with web scrapping and AI I recover every interest of any post on any social media and then remarketing each topic


It helps to be a bit detached; still committed but separate your ego/heart from the results. Get a contract signed for commissions/decisions/fees. Oh, make sure you have a relationship with the campaign treasurer if you don't want to get stuck with unpaid bills!

Read up on Blue State Digital, that was the company behind the super successful digital marketing campaign for Obama. They even have a TED talk about some of the stuff they did.
How would it be different from any other kind of SEO?
It’s not what you know. It’s what you’ve done. 


Best of luck!! I’m reinventing myself constantly and you can do it. Also, hear ya on the bad workplace. It happens. But you’re in control of your own career. 
I think certs have less meaning than cases in the portfolio. Try to describe in detail your best  work experience and indicate the knowledge of which you are sure. Also specify that you are eager to learn and develop (with areas). Good luck!
AIDA formula + sell to the mother (NOT the kids).
I recommend to read a book “blue ocean” how to focus on bigger picture and forget about competing! 
If you're selling directly to parents then I'd recommend the following marketing actions:

* Work with tutors or babysitters and make them affiliates.
* Can you get grants from the government or non-profits to make it free to certain schools or communities?
Hope it helps
Ahrefs for SEO.
Ahrefs and HubSpot for SEO and Inbound Marketing.
Moz.com and Ahrefs are great for SEO. 
[removed]
You can start with Facebook Blueprint and Google academy for ads to learn and practice.
Moz, semrush, aref and tutorial on youtube have great stuff on digital marketing.
Social Media Examiner-  coverage of all things social media, from Mike Stelzner and his excellent team. Brings the best of Social Media Marketing World to your inbox all year long. 
I like Hubspot, Neil Patel and Think With Google blogs.
Niel Patel bog on SEO.
My favorite has always been Search Engine Land. 
Neil patel, backlinko, digitaldeepak, soravjain, moz blog, 
Seoroundtable
Sej
Neilpatel
Backlinko

1. SEO - SEOMoz
2. Content marketing - Hubspot University
3. Paid search - Google adwords
Ahrefs recent  videos 
Moz videos  of rand fiskin
I fully endorse doing everything you can on HubSpot university before starting anything. 
Google everything. Whatever you need you will find there. You need to have an urge to learn. Read lots and lots of blogs. Implement what you feel is useful. Learning is hit and trial but words of professionals can help you.


Facebook Blueprint, Google Digital Garage.  
Find a specialist agency and offer help or a coffee or give them value and some way and ask to learn (a lot will have case studies on their websites).  


Not necessarily 'digital' marketing but one of the timeless classics is Ogilvy on Advertising
Do you have an example of what you’re looking for? 

What sort of “how to” info would be most helpful?
I was looking for this same data as well, with very little luck. 


1. Links are still king, and link-building is still the most important part of off-site SEO

2. As deepmind and other semantic systems by Google get better, longer content with good writing and strong on-site behavior metrics matter

3. A lot of people are suggesting that on-site behavior correlates to SERPs for competitive keywords. I have in my experience seen CTR affecting rankings. Make sure your pages are compelling and sticky.

4. On-site and technical SEO is growing in importance. Structured data is key for populating the knowledge graph. AMP helps CTR.

seo, backlinking as well as content will be more important factor.
1. content is king
2. take time on onpage specially in creating metatags, keyword analysis 
3. linkbuilding
Hi! I will be very straight forward 

2. Update your site content as regular as you can, this can make you be on the first page of Google.

3. Keyword, don't repeat many time as it will never help you to be on the first page, just use your best keywords in usual way on a sentence or paragraph. That is your there.

Well, you need to follow Google's guidelines because technology and the Search Engine algorithm are both becoming much more advanced.


Really just all of the main common sense things that actually need to be done like starting an outreach campaign to get natural backlinks.

Real user engagement and interactions.

Videos are great for this, and are also one of the most profitable Ad types when it comes to low, competitive CPC (Cost per Click)

If you want to rank well In Google in 2017 and beyond, you've got to provide value for readers, have full content with supporting pages, and get real engagements on social media. 


You should also remember that the process of ranking Locally or Nationally can take between 3-6 months to take effect. When first starting out, I would suggest running paid Ads to build up your customer base, and get your brand name out there.

You can use either Google AdWords or Facebook Ads to run those initial paid ads that will help get your website ranked faster, and also bring in sales during those first 6 months that you're waiting to get ranked and indexed within the search engines.

All of this should be handled by an Agency or experienced marketing firm, if you do have a small budget to do so.

So in conclusion, SEO in 2017 has to be done organically with real links and real social signals.

Best of luck!



Find long tail keywords in your niche that you can create content around. Drive search ad traffic to content. Sell within your content and then retarget viewers of that content to your actual offer page.



We get sub $1 clicks in almost any niche from Google search doing this. Then we pay maybe another $1 per click through retargeting but have a super high conversion rate because they’re a bit warmer by the time they see the ad.
I don’t think it’s google ads itself that is competitive. Rather, it’s your niche. Unfortunately, some services’ keywords are vastly more expensive to bid on than others. I’ve found that most digital services are pretty expensive. I’m still new to the game, but I’d recommend trying to find keyword phrases that are less common and bid on those to gain some traction. I’m sure you know this, but it’s important to make sure that you’re optimizing your landing page as well as you can so that those costly clicks don’t go to waste. Good luck!!
> Google ads are indeed very competitive - But that's because it's the most used SE across the globe. I'd recommend taking a fair amount of time doing keyword research, target those that don't have much competition recorded, as well as long tail keywords as mentioned already.   
>  
>  
>Also- Have you considered audience targeting?
I think you should try to use youtube ads
Not digital marketing itself, but some repetitive tasks as creating dozens of ads, A/B tests etc.

The natural path is automation as it is already happening. As the time gets by, it will get easier and easier to anyone create an ad. I mean, social media and search engines companies make profit from ads. It has to be easier so more people (and robots) can do.

The strategy and creative decisions will still be on human hands (I hope so). But I guess we will see the number of jobs going down soon.

Let me explain you why Google Ads are becoming easier and easier to setup because there are lots of ads platforms in the world. Even some of them provides the better ROI than Google ads. Therefore Google Ads is facing competition from these platforms. To overcome this competition Google is now creating their ads platform easier than ever. So that anyone can use Google ads to run their online promotion.

Now get back to your question is this the end of digital marketing agencies? My answer is no because not everyone in the world is having the effective copy writing skills. Digital marketing agency is filled with copywriters who write an amazing and effective copy for the Google ads. That's why it is nearly impossible that innovation in Google ads will replace the digital marketing agencies.
For agencies that focus a single channel, maybe. If your agency is focused on omni channel campaigns, I think there will be even more competition and need for agencies to oversee.
Actually i would argue that it will open the door for more agencies to operate and lower costs for the costumer making it more affordable for everyone


Trendhunter 
Honestly it’s a little bit of reading a ton (New York Times, the drum, age age, ad week, digiday, etc), listening to external partners on what is next for them and an element of “doing it” that over time helps you pick up on the trends. I create a biweekly newsletter for my org and now some external partners and it’s a lot of work but also helps me stay sharp on trends. Good luck!
It might be good to realize that not every trend is worth your attention. Take for example Google plus. It's dead and Google will shut it down. No need to worry. On the other hand voice search is very important new trend that will stay with us. 
I’d recommend creating custom RSS feed on feedly or any other service subscribing to the top sources. Check it every morning and you will keep yourself in a loop.

Where I would personally start is in paid advertising. I say this bc you have to learn a lot of other aspects of digital marketing to be good at it (a good understanding of cookies, writing copy for digital, CTAs, understanding analytics, etc.) 

I’d start by becoming google AdWords certified and going through Facebook blueprint. 

There’s just so much free learning online, lots of YouTube videos. Go through that before you buy any courses.
Another part of digital marketing is always use the data as an argument for why you are doing something different. A hypothesis and a result. Understanding how many page visitors/sessions correlate to a projected revenue goal will help as well. 

!!!

I myself likes Gary Vaynerchuk. I listen to his podcast, watch his youtube videos even on Facebook and check's his IG. 
Dear,you have to know Search engine OPtimization first .It is the root of  digital marketing. Then you will be able to decide from where you should start.. For that you can take a course or from google search you can get a better idea about SEO.The demand of digital marketing  increasing day by day.

best of luck .

Some people say as u need to master SEO (fundamental of digital marketing) and then they sell you a course on that. 

Some say you gotta start building your email list (u can write your own cheque) and then they sell you a course on that too.

Others mentioned about video marketing (latest trend) and then they sell you a course on that. 

Some swears by PPC (the fastest way to test) and then they sell you a course on that too. 


So I’ve spend a lot of money and time doing figure-8 with nothing to show and became more confuse than ever. 



Key is to have some sort of theoretical background and some sort of understanding. It can be learnt via videos, articles or courses, but main thing is to get to the practice ASAP.
The future is definitely in voice, AI and AR. Now I think you should follow your passion, after you'll get the basic understanding you can do a good decision of picking up the right way for you.



Here's the link for Respona: [https://respona.io/](https://respona.io/)
lmfao youre fucked
I think a lot of people are jumping the gun here. Tools like Hootsuite, Sprout Social, Buffer etc. are great, but they aren't going to write posts/generate good content for you. They create operational efficiencies, and provide some engagement metrics.

(Aside: If you're new to social media I would actually recommend you start by using the platforms themselves. Until you have a content calendar and lots of content to share it could be to your benefit to explore the various social platforms as a member of your audiences would.)

&#x200B;


Start by identifying the goals of your social media engagement. Is it just to drive website traffic and build brand awareness? Collect email addresses for remarketing?


Now you can start building your social strategy. What sort of messaging/content will help you achieve the goal that you set for your social channels? Study tips? College prep info? Sharing fun pictures and memes can be good for exposure on the platform itself, but it does little for your business in the long term. Back up your social content with well written blog posts etc. Social posts should have a purpose beyond likes, and most shares are achieved through ADDING VALUE for your followers.  If you have competitors in the space that are using social effectively, it's okay to take cues from them. Obviously the goal is to set yourself apart, but you can refine this content strategy as you go. 

Set weekly goals. Perhaps at first you post every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Try to be consistent in the frequency with which you post.

&#x200B;

what exactly does your company do 
Given the level of familiarity you've described, I'd recommend checking out Jab, Jab, Jab, Right Hook by Gary Vaynerchuck. 

It's like an ultimate guide for those working the brand's voice on social media. Each platform is explained in details, you learn about the difference between them and how to use each one in term of marketing. Tons of examples for inspiration.
Firstly we'll done, I think!  :)

Starting here will help you focus platform choice, messaging etc etc 
Then use the tools to help create plans, document, create, schedule and report 

Sounds like you're gonna be busy!!! 👍 
Your post is hilarious. Maybe you can add humor to your organization's Facebook posts, especially in education industry. International students would love the content.

Out of all the possible tools, I’d put photoshop at the bottom of your list, that’s for the graphic designers. 4 years in digital and I can count on two hands the amount of times I’ve had to use photoshop. 

Read blogs, look at the Facebook blueprint courses, learn how to optimise running campaigns, learn how to do keyword research, learn the basics of seo. 

Start your own simple blog, structure it to meet seo best practices, create your sitemap and submit it with google search console. Then do an seo audit of your site. 


Do an audit of your own Google Analytics & Ads. 


I’ve got a business degree and I’m a digital consultant so you definitely don’t need one, our head of seo has a degree in music. Lead with your knowledge but most companies require some sort of degree. 
Ayy


Begin with subscribing to marketing blogs (PM me if you want specifics, and I can compile a list for you). Marketing books are good for fundamentals, however for trends and current tactics books quickly become outdated. 

Photoshopping is a useful skill to have in general, but its importance is more dependent on your role, in addition to the size of the company. If you're working at a start-up, having knowledge of all of the adobe creative suite apps (InDesign and Illustrator are just as useful, if not more so) will be a big help. If you're working for a large firm where the roles are much more specific,  the scope of responsibility is more defined, those skills won't make much of a difference. 

Hubspot has outstanding resources for inbound marketing, I'd definitely suggest you give those a look. 

Eazl Growth Hacking 2018 Certificate, 
Hubspot Social Media Certificate,

Listen to Social Media Examiner podcast


When you start working, it is a different environment. You will learn more on job than from books. You can start with economic research, if research interests you. Photoshop skills can help you in a design job, totally depends on where your interests lie. 
Follow these steps,

Get around 3 certificates for beginning. Google analytics, Google AdWords, and one more of your choice.


You'll learn fastest this way. Your next step would be finding your niche. Digital marketing has lots of different stuff and if we're talking about marketing then there's infinite stuff. You must find your niche and keep growing. Never stop.
According to the American Marketing Association (AMA), important skills are like 

1. Metrics & Conversions
2. Email Marketing
3. UI/UX
4. Social and community
5. SEO
6. Content Marketing.
I am a digital marketer and I believe having good content writing skill is the topmost skill because if you can write a good engaging copy than you can attract more people naturally and social media game is like a snowball which keeps on getting bigger as more people start engaging.

* A good catch up on content
* creativity and presence of mind
* Updating yourself with trends
* 
[deleted]
1. Adobe CS
2. Google Analytics/Adwords
3. HTML 
4. Content writing/CMS 
5. SEO
7. Marketo/email marketing
A digital marketer should be versatile and should be an expert in all the aspect of digital marketing and should be constantly updated with the latest trends in the field because digital marketing is a dynamic field.
The ability to read & judge data.
These aren't specific skills but attention to detail and being analytical will get you far. Skills-wise, understanding tracking mechanisms (setting up cookies, utm codes) and tag management (Google tag manager) and Google analytics (or something like Adobe) are some good basics. 
[removed]
[removed]

What can the group recommend to get to the “next level” in digi marketing? I’ve taken a few classes and so many just focus on the basics. 

What really propelled you to where you are today? Mentors? Challenging positions? How to land those positions if you’re still building your skills?  


Turnkey services! It can be hard to get your client to create/give you ANY content, not to mention QUALITY content.
These are important required skills to be a Digital Marketer  


Content Marketing/Writing  
Creativity   
Basic knowledge of SEO  
Analytics and Reporting  
Social Media Marketing
[removed]

**Marketing**


**Technical**

Next (I believe), it is important to have technical understanding of how things work in the digital world. You do not have to know to build the technologies, just how it works so that you can link it to your marketing activity. This also allows you to keep ahead of the game when it comes to the changing technologies. 

**Communications**


1 word: **Empathy**. 

I see so many digital marketeers focusing in owning the channels or tactics, spending hours reading blog posts on "when is the best time to post on Facebook, which advertising platform is the cheapest, 10 quick hacks to optimise conversion on your website etc etc.

Your success as a marketeer lies in:

1. **REALLY Knowing who your ideal customer is**  
If you want to think like a marketeer, you have to be on the lookout for opportunities, every time, everywhere.   
They don't trust new products? Focus on adding social proof everywhere, gather reviews on Google My Business, Facebook etc, and publish them on the most critical conversion spots.  
Always focus on providing value and building relations. The rest comes later.
3. **Always keep learning**  
You should subscribe to subreddits, Quora topics, newsletters, authority websites... Read your newsletters. Check your feeds.  


Knowing how to grab, hold and convert attention into action. 

There are thousands of people who can't write their way out of a cardboard box, who don't look attractive, who are not very outgoing or skilled in front of the camera. 

There are thousands of wheezy-voiced people who are killing it with podcasts. 

There are ugly people doing millions off of Instagram and YouTube. 

Why? 

They don't care of your, mine or others opinions. They have problems just like you, the same 24 hours like you do, and the same options as you. 


What they do know, however, is to grab the attention of their audience, hold it, stay top of mind, and convert the attention into action. 


U know super bowl? 


Soccer world championship? BILLIONS of people watch every game. 


It's all because of the attention. 

It doesn't matter if you can't write, if that's the medium you can make the most impact on, you should write. If you just do YOU, and your truth is controversial you WILL attract an audience. It's just a matter of time. 

The need for communicating have never changed, were literally doing the same thing as People in the bronze age did. 

They gathered in a group, and talked about stuff. Asked each other questions, answered questions. 



Grab, keep and convert attention. 

Welll, that's a great stuff. But, somewhere I feel Digital Marketing is a Psuedo Field of profession.
[deleted]
I’m with you buddy. Agencies especially do this but typically with senior and junior marketers. Asses your relationship with your boss and always keep tabs of your performance-results in case you need to defend your position. 
Keep updating yourself and add more value to the company on a consistent basis. All you past achievements might not be taken into account, but what you are currently achieving will be counted by the management. So keep performing consistently and the management will not get the urge to replace you along with your vast experience.

I work with a lot of jr people - I wouldn't worry so long as you stay smarter than they are. The experience you have is extremely valuable -if you can use it as a differentiator- leverage it and you should be fine. If you're in your late 30s and don't have the experience that comes with it, you're in a lot of trouble.
Since things constantly change in digital, experience counts, but only so much. Differentiate yourself with soft skills, communication skills, project mgmt experience and business acumen. Those are skills that typically only come with experience that younger workers will take time to acquire. 
> digital marketing manager

Are you a hands-on employee as in you manage the digital marketing of a website/social media yourself? Or are you the manager of a department?


If the latter, your value is (or should be) in different things, particularly management and leadership. You don't need to worry a lot here as long you deliver on your objectives and continue to grow towards management.
Honestly good experience and a track record will help you keep afloat. We have a few younger marketers, and when it came to looking for a senior marketer, we had a hard time finding one because all the good ones have either started their own companies, or they are committed to a company. I think there's room for everyone, and someone with experience can help guide all of us youngins in the industry. We have so much to learn!
or by a computer with AI.
If you’re worried about age discrimination then you might be missing the point...
100% need to always have a side hustle. Take what skills you have for digital marketing and start cold calling local businesses. It's crazy how many biz owners which are typically over 40 have the slightest clue about marketing and obtaining new customers 
My excel skills are shit. No project management experience. Just social, SEO and PPC.
I think you're dead-on with this approach! They may be deprioritizing Page content, but they're heavily invested in video, so at the very least, I think this is a good way to hedge your bets. And if engagement is what you're ultimately after, video is obviously the way to go.
FB is changing itself to protect spammers.And as you say to go with the short video is a great Idea. Good luck.
Shares are now your most valuable interaction on fb. If a person shares your post, it is more likely to be placed on other's feeds.

Therefore it makes sense to create socially engaging content. Turns out video works best for that (whowuddathunk kappa). And on FB use the “page post engagement” campaign type to optimize for engagement.


Also, take FB rep advice with a grain of salt, you have to test what works best for your business.

Just don't.
You're going to see those guys disappear.

There's a new "no mercy" rule for spam. Anything promotional, anything with a CTA = instant, permanent ban.

When registering a domain I always pay for the privacy option every single time and rarely get any spam emails right away. it makes a big difference. On your LinkedIn note, a lot of people do connect with LinkedIn (even if they don't know them) if they have similar interests or are in the same industry. Those connections might lead you to a new customer or even a new job in the future.



then 1>what is search engine?

2>which type of project you handle before?


I hope it will help you,Best luck to your interview.
Hey mate just a small point: you're not dropping off business cards, you're meeting potential decision makers and finding out how you can help them solve problems. The card won't do the talking, so don't rely on it to have any effect once you've left. Make sure you connect with someone, over something, and let them know you'll be back in touch again. I'll let someone else more qualified answer your other questions, but as an introvert I recognised/assumed/projected that there might be some propensity towards "drop and run" with those cards! People buy people, so connect as best you can. Good luck.
Regarding what you should do if the manager isn't there:


"In God we trust, everybody else bring data"

That said, make great presentations. 



Then present the projects and the challenges. Some people might be bullish while others are bearish, you need the ones which are compatible with your tactics, budget, industry etc.

Marketing is connecting the service/product with the chosen audience. That should include you, meaning you need to be the connector with the business you like and/or are compatible with. There will be less friction. 

Hope it helps and best of luck to you.
Stagger a reach out on multiple channels....LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook...the more ways that you're 'connected' with them, the more often you/your brand will pop up and remind them of your existence. Obviously dont bombard them and creep them out!
Basically every platform has a different way of attributing clicks and conversions. It's a rabbit hole. 

Are you using UTM parameters on the link from Twitter? That could help you diagnose.
 GA:  
Site visits: 115  


Are these unique views? If yes, Perhaps those link clicks on twitter aren't unique, some users might've clicked several times.  




I believe the best thing to do to track the real number of clicks coming from TW is to use their a unique tracking link on whose clicks will then reflect on the Campaign section of GA.
If you follow any sort of blueprint for a marketing strategy you’re likely doing it wrong, all businesses are unique and so should be the marketing strategy. 

My advice would be to totally forget the notion of “I need to do a marketing plan” and think about the problem you want to solve. What it is you want to achieve before you even consider how you’re going to achieve it.

It should end up like a tree. At the trunk is the core aim. As you go up the tree it branches out with goals to meet the aim each having their own leaves that are smaller projects that lead into the goal. Only then can you start making a plan of what to do and when. When you get to this stage look up SMART goals and make sure your goals cover each of the categories.

Good luck 👍

 If this isn't your area of expertise I suggest you communicate with your employer that you are a specialist for one particular job. Tell them that they should consider bringing more people on, or an overseer to work with you for the most beneficial relationship.

It really depends on what track you want to go down in the beginning.


I know Hubspot offers a free inbound marketing certification course (I had my new hire take the course). After that then you can go down different paths depending on what you're most comfortable with (the goal is to be well-rounded by the end and tackle courses that you are uncomfortable with). These would range from content writing (blogs, PR, organic social media posting, KOLs, etc), paid ads (learning the backends of Adwords and Facebook Business), graphic design (how to make those eye catching images to push conversion), lead management (learn how to LQ, nurture and segment), everything SEO, email marketing, and landing page/email template design (get comfortable with drag and drop as well as CSS and HTML).

This would be a good place to start.

I've started giving this piece of advice to anyone that I know just getting started....and I really believe it. You shouldn't be afraid of "Starting fresh" in this industry because everything is always changing. Learn the best practices build on them, and constantly try new things - because that's the name of the game. Try, Test, Try, Test, Try, Test. Imposter syndrome shouldn't exist, because you should always be one step outside of your comfort zone.

Work to the best of your abilities by being a good writer, communicator, and being able to look at the big picture. In the meantime, I'd agree about taking the hubspot certification course to get a crash-course on best practices. 
I’m looking for a digital marketer to work with if you want “experience” if you’re interested!
[removed]
Nice Post!!
Hubspot 

There are different type of services available but it all depends on what type of social media management you need. 
HubSpot would be the go to for multiple services, though it gets pretty pricey.

I understand the convenience of having everything in one platform, but you’d be better off having 2-3 dedicated solid platforms. 1 for social, 1 for email and 1 for CMS.    
Bitrix
Organic and paid or just paid? 
Buffer is social scheduling. Hootsuite is more social listening but can also be used for scheduling.

This might not be the most popular opinion, but Sprout Social is a great all in one social platform. It's not cheap, but the reporting, listening, and scheduling features all make it a powerhouse.
Slight preference for Buffer because of its interface. Hootsuite is good for monitoring/listening.
[removed]
Hootsuite because it just genuinely has "more" than Buffer
I am using Buffer... Currently using free plan... But it's have limitations.. like accounts limits and daily Post limits.. I am also using hootsuit .. it's better then buffer more features.. 
But right now I am using socialaider and best thing is both buffer and hootsuit have monthly plan but Socialaider have on lifetime deal approx $59 for one time payment and you can use lifetime.

Also you can add unlimited social accounts. Socialaider lifetime deal running 
on DealMirror(dot) com website. 
If you are looking for a way to set posts to repeat automatically (which Buffer and Hootsuite dont do), check out OneUp. Only $3/month for up to 10 accounts.
Buffer Vs Hootsuite




How easy and efficient the platform is to use
How much time you can save by using it
Asana. 
Excel
I use Trello. After trying multiple tools, it seems like the most convenient one considering price(free)/quality. But that's just for planning. For scheduling I use Buffer. 
Windows notepad.exe
google and candly for clients
Moday.com is fine as well
AirTable. They have very useful templates for digital marketing, digital media & asset management

For Blog content just google sheet 
Airtable
Teamup.com is fantastic AND free
Wrike, Asana, WorkZone...project management systems are great for content calendars!
Currently a GSheet with Buffer. Would like to move to Co-Shedule to integrate MailChimp and Buffer more fluently at a high-level overview in the future since our email campaigns mirror our social efforts.
Blueprint
Create a Business Manager account on FB and read its resources. Play with Ads Manager as you go along with each course/resource. You can even contact an FB support if you have problems.   Good luck!
Checkout social currency. It's really good
Growth Everywhere 
Neil Patel's Podcast is awesome for Digital marketing
Marketing School
I find hashtagify.com a great tool! However a little bit of research on the platform always does well, spending an hour down a 'hashtag' hole finding what other people use can often be the most lucrative! 
What ever your product is, find the competition for the product and find out what hashtags they are using. That at first should be a good indicator.

There are sites you can use but I like going down rabbit holes on Instagram and finding different communities. It’s a great opportunity for market research and learning more about the customer.

  

You can check tools like Hashtagify or All Hashtag. Apart from that just keep a note that you can use up to 30 tags on a post. If you include more than 30 tags on a single photo/video, your comment won't post. Try to use relevant hashtags.
The most important tags to worry about for your business are:

* Popular hashtags
* Specific/Niche hashtags
* Branded hashtags

Try to use the mixture of these three for getting the best insights or audience to your posts.


&#x200B;
There is a website known as all-hashtags. It will help you to find relevant Hashtags For Instagram. Hashtagify is also a great tools to find relevant Instagram Hashtags. Apart from these tools you can also find hashtags from Instagram itself. just visit your competitor profile and see which hashtags they are follow. You can apply the same tricks for your targeted audiences.
Wow. Tough crowd. Harshin’on mah mellow.
AI's impact on the digital marketing field.

Go earn a real job. Writing practically ANYTHING about online marketing will be soon irrelevant and outdated with practically ZERO future value. It will neither help you land any jobs in the field, nor impress anybody working in the field. I see no benefit on a ROI perspective.
Maybe the over abundance and competitiveness. Ad espresso has a lot of great industry comparisons. Also, it would be interesting to compare it to how its taken over traditional media. I think a macro/historical view is the only way it would be useful to your readers. Taken over in the sense that radio took over print, television over radio, etc. Also, the near monopolization of advertising owned by google and facebook. Should two companies own that much power? How has that worked out in the past?
Hyper-personalization, personal information as a currency, big data, artificial intelligence, machine learning and automation
machine learning, AI or automation? impacts of digital marketing in offline channels? 

Would be an interesting topic to further explore how a few companies own the entire digital marketing landscape. 
I think it would be interesting to see the results and differences between exceptional content vs average content with best practices.
Start by reading the current published academic literature in the field. This will help you understand what type of theoretical topics are currently studied and where the opportunities are to build off of that research.
Facebook Blueprint is free and offers more value than alot of the paid for courses from 'gurus'.  
Same as Google's Digital Garage.  


Couple this with reading extensivley around the principles of marketing, sales, buyer behaviour, advertising and direct response marketing and you'll get 10x more value than a paid for course in the skills required for digital marketing.  

I will recommend you to do some basic reading about all the most popular marketing channels that current exists, and decide if you should be working with Google Ads, SEO, Facebook, E-mail marketing, Affiliate or something else (there's really many opportunities). Then start taking courses on the 3 most popular websites:

* [https://www.skillshare.com](https://www.skillshare.com)
* [https://www.udemy.com](https://www.udemy.com)
* [https://www.lynda.com](https://www.lynda.com)

Lynda is the best 
Hi OP, I started studying for a professional marketing certification, and one of the videos in the learning path is called "Online Marketing Foundations" by Brad B (A LinkedIn Learning course, found on Lynda too). I just finished watching the ~5 hour course and documented some key points of each section in a [blog](https://bethebean.com/marketing/online-marketing-foundations/) if you'd want to quick scan to see if it's right first for you. 
Look into Skillahare
Courses will only get you so far - the real cool stuff begins after. Start by completing some simple tasks by yourself. Look for part-time marketing work (even from friends or family) to actually build up your experience with real life cases. Marketing is about testing and testing and experimenting - everything changes very quickly and you need to know what works in 2018.   


As for courses I'd go with Lynda.

in terms of course, i'd recommend Dan Henry's FB Ads course or Sam Oven's course...

they both focus on similar things... one is $1,000 cheaper. 

Forget Lynda, FB Blueprint, etc 

Good luck.

&#x200B;
I'm happy to help you out if you're still looking for someone. I've been working in digital marketing (and also web development) for close to a decade!
I’d be happy to help too! I’ve ran ads on Google, Bing, Yahoo, YouTube, Gmail, Pinterest, Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat. Message me if you need help still. 
Happy to help here! I run digital content strategies for lots of companies you’ve heard of. 

I'd be happy to help you!
Happy to help. More of a traditional marketer whom knows a thing or two about digital but happy to help nonetheless. 
What country are you in? I’m in Peru. B2B start with Google Ads. If your country is like Peru, you can probably purchase a database of companies and blast emails using mailchimp. Clean the emails:
/database. Mailchimp detects over used databases. Budget of USD 600 on ad spend per month should be more than enough. Digital marketing a cheap. Facebook for remarketing.  
Hi, 

It also depends on the price point, products and solution that you're selling. But the 3rd segment is definitely an ecommerce store.

Customer feedback will free you. Get some feedback, come up with a hypothesis and then test it. Good luck!

How did you grow your following? What’s the demographic? I’d be interested in seeing your website to see if the disconnect is obvious to an outside viewer 
The top of your marketing (sales) funnel is doing great but now you're facing the challenges as you work down to the bottom of the funnel. Awareness and engagement are bringing in the users but you need to hit them with a purchase strategy. 


* Are you using psychological pricing? For example, list $49.99 and discount to $19.99.

* How many presets are within a package? Are you separating your presets package into different SKUs? For example, seasonal packages or style packages (landscape, lifestyles, etc).

* Do you have an email signup for remarketing/lookalike audience building? In the future, you can do some email marketing to those users to create some urgency to purchase. Email marketing is one of the cheapest forms to get some purchases if done right.

* Are you utilizing content marketing to help encourage users to purchase your Lightroom Presets? For example, I would create a blog showing how to use my Lightroom Presets to make a photo really pop. Not just applying the filters, but also minor tweaks and such. This will take a bit more time and scheduling but you already have the audience to work with. The goal is to get them more interested in your product.


* Are you using Google Analytics to see your customer flow? Where are they dropping off? Are they stopping out at the checkout or they simply not interested in the product? 






A/B test new landing pages.  Could also be pricing. Try packages/ bundles too. 
I would like to see your landing page :)


There might be inconsistencies in your market segmentations that leads the wrong people into your site.


&#x200B;

Good luck

&#x200B;
Ping me.
Seth's blog.
Yourmentorken.com 

Just made it 
Here are some worldclass blogs in terms of content as well as UI/UX:

* [groovehq](https://www.groovehq.com/blog)
* [surveysparrow](https://surveysparrow.com/blog/)
* [buffer](https://blog.bufferapp.com/)
* [neilpatel](https://neilpatel.com/blog/)
* [hubspot](https://blog.hubspot.com/)

Social Media Examiner

Social Media Today

Marketing Land
Hubspot and AdStage
Nice Research man. Looking for additional tips on Digital Marketing.
Good to know about this..thanks for sharing the useful information..
It's  very helpful information
Thanks for sharing such a useful information..
great info.
Useful Info.
perfect
Okay, so first of all, you're going to track everything through Google Analytics, why? Because its free to use. You'll install that tracking code on your site, set up URL based goals and enable ecommerce tracking so that you can track sales/revenue.

 Here's how you're going to spend that $1K. 

$500 on Facebook Ads - Show Movie Trailer in link ad with hyper-localized headline such as "Showing at ___ Theatres" geo-targeted to people in the area with similar interests as the movie genre.


You can drive both ads to your site for ticket purchases but before users buy, have them enter their email. You'll need these later. For SEO, just tell your interviewer that you'll write a couple blogs for the movie w/ keywords and link-tags to relevant sites that the company can post on their website and share organically on social media (sorry not my forte). Then take all the emails you collected that didn't end up purchasing and the emails that the company already has (assuming you're not ALSO building their CRM) and hit them with promotional messaging for your movie. 

This isn't foolproof by any means and would need a great site and ads. It would need to be tested - but this should at least help you sound like you know what you're talking about.
Hello Melihs, 
Congratulations and welcome to one of the most exciting careers in modern day marketing. 

Here are my recommendations for you. I'm doing my best not to repeat the great comments already on this post. 

1. Make sure your plan consists of multiple optimisation cycles. MOC's. A good start is these cycles are weekly.

2. Split the budgets into four parts that are not equal and apply weight. There is a learning curve involved with managing your campaign, and dollar spent the first month is different than the dollar spent on the last month. A good rule of thumb is 
Week 2 20% $200
Week 4 35% $350

3. KPI's the most important metric to measure is conversion. Make sure your always optimising for conversion and you can track conversion on your analytics tool. All other KPI's will feed the acquisition. 

Here's what the KPI's are really telling you.
Impression = Demand of the keyword
Clicks/Reaction = how good your quality score is and your ad text.
 

5. Don't ignore Youtube in-stream videos; I honestly find these great especially for movies. Make sure you set your targeting based on GEO settings and you have a good video trailer that says the movie is playing your cinema. 

6. Optimise Calls to Action, Budgets between Facebook, Adwords, Bing, and youtube, and Audience targeting.


8. Email, with my experience with movies the best thing to do is to sort email by genres. For example fiction lovers, or sci-fi fans. Create a weekly newsletter and offer a reward for anyone who reads it by placing a coupon code "AllSheWantedWasPopcorn."

9.  Hire local movie critics and ask them to review each movie inside your blog. Create lists of top best ten movies by genre or year. The best action movies of 2017, the top best romantic movies, etc. This will help build up your SEO. You need to send your written a list of keywords to include in each blog, to ensure that you build content that improves your SEO. The better the SEO, the easier it is to manage your SEM campaign. 

10. Create a movies trivia on social media channels. A great campaign I saw once, was if someone could translate movies names into the local language, it was hilarious as many movies names were lost in translation and the campaign went viral. Other things could include, ask questions about plot, characters, actors, etc. 


Good luck
Reference 
 http://www.ebizmba.com/articles/search-engines


I love these Reddits.  You can tell everyones marketing background immediately.

Before we get ahead of ourselves, a little bit information from you goes a LONG way.  

1.  Describe the theater
2.  Which movie did you decide on

Creating a digital marketing campaign is not a cookie cutter process.  I don't sell individual services such as web design, or SEO, or Adwords, FB Ads, etc.  Because then you end up blindly selling your customer things that simply don' t work and you just took their money.

Your movie and venue determine your consumer.  Your idea consumer determines your campaign and which advertising channels to use.


The apps and website that a teen uses differ from an adult.  If you choose a kids film, your digital efforts should appeal to the parents, the moms on Facebook.  Teens to Young Adults, IG and Musicly.  Afterschool.  Snapchat.  Adults?  Facebook.  Young people DONT use Facebook.   


There is a ton of good info here.  Hopefully you can flesh out a good plan that gets you the job.

Good luck
Thanks for writing this, it's a seriously good help. Subbed!
This is extremely useful, thanks!
nice article definitely worth the read!
New Batches are Starting Visit: http://www.digitalnest.in/
I stopped reading when you said this: "build a following on Instagram and then sell them some products using Amazon affiliate links"  

[deleted]
Its just getting started and still growing tremendously. The best part about learning how to be a digital marketer and working for somebody for a little while is is that you become good enough to just do it on your own and make the full profit.....

The secret tip of any profession how to earn more is to love what you're doing. 






Absolutely not Infact it is high time you start learning and exploring this platform . Digitalization of platforms has just started hence the market is absolutely vaccant .
It's never too late! Competitive, yes, but you can do it. Learn a lot, ask questions, take free courses, and you'll get into a nice starter gig. Don't expect to make a huge salary at first, but if you get really passionate, creative, and good at it, in a few years you can be six-figures+. Best of luck!
Absolutely not! 

Meow and meow people consume their media via their smart devices, many business owners don't have the time or the necessary understanding of how the market works!

Digital marketing is evolving with the technology around it. Expect it to expand into VR and AR in the following years.

There is a big chance that some of the jobs are going to be automated - but that is more relevant to specific tasks. We believe that the automation will only change the way the Digital Marketing Industry works and involve with it.
Marketing is simply more saturated than before. It's not like the opportunity has disappeared completely. Work hard and seek opportunity. 

Digital Marketing is very good field and you can start learning anytime. You can easily get new job after completing digital marketing course. You can also do freelancing and earn good money through digital marketing. 

It's a shame that other jobs doesn't have an open culture as programming have.  


If you ask the same question in a programming subreddit, you would already have many mentors willing to teach you. Good luck searching for somebody!


Or, you can hire someone. I know many people that offer paid mentoring services. It's going to be pricey, but look for one that is in your target speciality (PPC, SEO, Social Media, Email, etc).
Where are you based u/darkhorse818? If you’re anywhere near Boston, I’m happy to offer any advice and mentorship I can
I’ve worked for 4 companies now doing paid search. Everything I learned was on the job experience and reading blogs. People don’t exactly want to share their secrets for success especially when it might fall under trade secrets.
Get a job at an agency that offers the specific sub-section of digital marketing you're interested in (SEO, PPC, CRO, etc.).  Then find the person in the company that's actually good at what they do (most people in agencies will be mediocre at best) and suck up as much knowledge as you can.
Look for digital marketing consultants in your town and ask if they need any admin help. 
If online coaching helps, I would be happy to help. 

These skills include and not limited to (listed below each skill are free sources you can use to learn):   


• SEO 

SEO Learning Center by Moz

The Definitive Guide To SEO In 2018

How to Learn SEO in 2018 (and Stay Sane)

Neil Patel: The Advanced Guide To SEO

Search Engine Land’s Guide To SEO

7 Days to SEO Success

  
• PPC 

PPC University: Learn Search Marketing for Free with WordStream

Google Digital Garage

&#x200B;

• Social Media Marketing 

Social Media: The Free Beginner’s Guide from Moz

A Beginner’s Guide to Social Media Advertising

Facebook Blueprint by Facebook

Primer by Google

The Complete Guide to LinkedIn Ads

The Sophisticated Guide to Marketing on LinkedIn: 2017 Edition

The Complete Guide to Twitter Marketing

Twitter Marketing: The Essential Guide

Instagram Marketing: How to Create Captivating Visuals, Grow Your Following, and Drive Engagement

How to Create an Instagram Marketing Strategy

Snapchat Marketing: A Guide to Creating Compelling Snaps & Stories That Grow Your Brand

  
• Digital Analytics 

Google: Analytics Academy

A Beginners Guide to Facebook Insights

How to Use Twitter Analytics: The Complete Guide for Marketers

Understanding LinkedIn Analytics

Instagram Analytics Guide: How to Pull & Examine Your Data

Snapchat Analytics: How to Measure Your Brand’s Efforts on the App

  
• Design 

Graphic Design Tutorials By Canva: learn about concepts like color schemes, typography, designing with shapes and so on using Canva as a platform

Piktochart Tutorials: Learn how to create amazing infographics using Piktochart.

Visual Learning Center: Learn how to create infographics using Visme, another DIY tool.

Design Fundamentals by Crello: Crello is a new online graphic design tool that allows you to create some neat stuff. The tutorials cover a number of concepts from beginners to advanced.

  
• Inbound Marketing 

Hubspot offers a: Free Online Marketing Training | Inbound Certification

  
• Email Marketing 

A Beginner’s Guide to Successful Email Marketing

Email Marketing Made Simple: A Step by Step Guide

Getting Started with Email Marketing

&#x200B;

• Coding

 You can go to W3 School website to learn the basics for free: W3 Schools Online Web Tutorials 
You actually no need to take a paid course you have lot of content which you can watch and learn.

If you are interested in fb marketing you have facebook blueprint,similarly for google you have google academy
Digital Marketing involves many things such as SEO, social media marketing, link building, etc. So, you can go through the  or maybe go through the Whiteboard Friday sessions of Moz or Marketing Land to get an idea about this field. 
>'...so I can maintain an image on a business Instagram'

&#x200B;

Can you elaborate?
Yes they are totally free and you will have all the info.
I haven't really seen anything in-depth covering Instragram marketing that's any good - if you just try Googling around the subject you should find a number of blog posts that'll help. If you're looking for digital marketing help more broadly, you could do worse than reading a blog like Moz. For me, owning and operating a website, together with reading blogs, was the best to learn. 
Setting up computer, getting logged into all platforms, and scheduling intro calls/face to face with all relevant team members and stakeholders.

&#x200B;

When you enter a new roll as a Digital Marketer, with a new company, you will have a \~2-3 month period that will be a "learning period" for lack of better term. It's almost impossible to enter a company and start "working" immediately.
Besides setting up my computer and programs, I talked to people that were important to the success of my efforts. Sales people for instance, then customer success. It gave me insights into our customers, prospects, what kind of people we target, and how we speak about our product. This was over the course of the first week, but started with that on day 1 too. 

&#x200B;

Setting up computer, and a training course.
First day is pretty much all about setup. After that, reading on-boarding documentation about any need-to-knows with regards to the work such as demographics, objectives, current channels, etc. and then just doing some research and gaining a better understanding of the product at hand.
B2B marketing is strong social. The B2B funnel and goals are different from regular social for consumers. 

In my experience, social is used for attracting people to your content (for E.g a case study on best software tools for a particular problem) and then to retargwt users that engaged with your content. 


1. Use Facebook more for events coverage and employer branding.
2. Use twitter to engage with audiences and influencers via tweetchats etc.

But considering the powerful targeting ability of Facebook, don't rule it out. 
Make a conversion funnel and to each stage of the funnel, map a corresponding content type. Example- a blog meant for awareness would go on Facebook and LinkedIn. A whitepaper (with a form) meant for awareness would go on LinkedIn.
Then sponsor those posts. Organic reach is insignificant.


Generally speaking, B2B requires a deeper approach to content, because purchase pathways are longer, but ultimately, you are still selling to people - there just might be more of them involved ina B2B sale than, for example, some dude buying a pair of shoes. Typically you'll find more focus on building up key people as thought leaders, providing sales with content support, and perhaps surprisingly, less of a product-focus, and a greater focus on problems the business solves.   



The ‘Awareness, Consideration, Purchase’ buying model. People go through each stage. Great B2B marketers help people stay engaged and help move them through each step with content that matches the appropriate level. Check out HubSpot for this.
There are plenty of industries marketing on social for b2b. Anyone offering seo, digital marketing services online to businesses on both linkedin and fb/ig.

It gets interesting the beauty industry like say the salon industry where product producers market to both hair dressers (b2b) and consumers.
Define social media. What is, social media. 



It boils down to knowing where your market is. Your business C-Suite leaders aren’t making decisions based off something they saw on Facebook or Instagram. 

However, connections on their platform such as LinkedIn? I would argue yes. 


I would go as far as to say that business-to-business is actually bigger than b2c because a lot of people Instagram one of the Instagram Stars and most of the people on Instagram selling stuff are trying to teach them how to do that which would technically be business-to-business....
B2B for sure, i have gotten tons of leads with proper content marketing via Instagram and WordPress. But to be fair, the hot leads came from WordPress \[quick tips\].

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Hey man, I'm also located in Singapore and interested in becoming more well-versed in Digital Marketing. If you're interested, let's exchange contacts and see if we can trade info or find some project we can work on together. 
Sounds cool. How about getting together on a telegram group chat or something to exchange ideas and stuffs, guys? 

Am a digital marketer for an e-commerce site, btw.
Also from sg, would be keen to be a part of the group to learn more!
Share Telegram group guys ⚡️🦑
Check out the Word Workers facebook group. It's an awesome community of professional copywriters.
Hello! I'm fr Singapore as well! I was not expecting any Singaporeans to be on this sub. I'm currently learning about digital marketing so let's link up!
Hello from Malaysia!! 😁
Hi. Could you add me to the group as well? Would like to bounce ideas on facebook marketing with you all.

I would choose one of the following sources that work best with the existing routines:

Podcasts

If you have a commute, listening to podcasts could be an easy way to stay current. I'd recommend trying Edge of the Web, Marketing Over Coffee, or Authority Hacker. They all do a decent job of going over some of the big updates.

RSS Feeds

If you follow blogs and already use an RSS reader such as Feedly you may want to add some digital marketing related blogs. I'd recommend following Quick Sprout, Buffer, Wordstream, and Conversion XL.

Email

If you prefer to get a daily digest in your email I'd check out Search Engine Land or Marketing Land.

Don't over do it, choose a method you think you'll actually pay attention to and not ignore.
Conversion XL institute, Digital Marketer, SEO that Works, Fletcher Method, Russell Brunson, CopyHackers, Sam Ovens


You need more time in the day so you can focus on marketing, that would be step 1.
Follow active digital marketing experts on Twitter. They post regularly on important updates on different platforms and make it easy tomfollw up with them while just checking up on your Twitter feed. I would recommend you to start with Larry Kim just because he regularly post lists of other experts that you can also follow. 
See if you can do some digital marketing work for a local company for free. Someone who is happy for the free help and is happy to let you learn at the same time. Use that as a case study to show future clients / employers.
try some podcasts. I think its the only way you can find some extra time!
YouTube, Google, Facebook groups, podcasts. That's where you should start. First learn some theory then go being practical by doing advertising for somebody or for yourself so you will learn it.
This job requires a lot of time to be able to test, re-test and understand best procedures.
Ryan Stewart for SEO.
Time and energy for PPC. 
SEO (Search Engine Optimization) is a form of digital marketing that involves optimizing your website and content so that it gets better ranked by search engines, and gets you more visits.

&#x200B;

SEO is a sub-set of digital marketing.   



  
Digital marketing covers: SMM, PPC, content marketing, etc etc
No SEO is the part of Digital Marketing
To get better understanding, you can see [Digital Marketing Image](https://imgur.com/XdPWUmL)

&#x200B;

**Digital marketing** encompasses **all marketing efforts** that use an electronic device or the internet. Whereas **SEO** is one of integral part of any digital marketing strategy.

SEO is the process of making a web page easy to find, easy to crawl, and easy to categorize. It is about helping your customers find out your business from among thousand other companies via search engines.
yes Digital marketing is different from SEO. I would like to explain how they are different from each other.

&#x200B;

SEO --> It is the process or technique which includes website and content optimization with the appropriate and efficient use of keywords searched on google search engine. As a result it will help you to rank up your website and increase in organic traffic.

It is of two types: On-page SEO and off-page SEO.

&#x200B;

Digital marketing --> It consists of the techniques which you use to sell/ market your things or services on the internet. SEO is also the subset of digital marketing.


Web development for your business, blogging, affiliate marketing, CPA, Facebook marketing, email marketing, Google ads, etc.



· Content marketing

· Influencer marketing

· E-commerce marketing




· Mobile marketing. 
 


Where, Digital marketing manager works along with an SEO specialist in a campaign to increase a company’s overall exposure using digitally based media. The strategies shared by SEO specialists and digital marketing manager include several marketing practices such as email marketing, content marketing, social media marketing, and mobile marketing. An SEO specialist is concerned about increasing visits to a website and the digital marketing specialist is concerned with increasing a company’s overall online presence and visibility to consumers.
Digital marketing includes SEO. So, you need to understand SEO for digital marketing. SEO helps to find your website in Google.

For a digital marketing consultant, you will need to look for a digital marketing agency. 
Here is a complete explanation about DIGITAL MARKETING or some people says INTERNET MARKETING or ONLINE MARKETING. Basically, Digital marketing is a Tree and It mainly has 3 Branches.

SEO(Search Engine Optimization)
SEM(Search Engine Marketing)
SMM(Social Media Marketing)
SMO(Social Media Optimization)
SMS(Social Media Sharing)


Email Marketing
Content Marketing
Affiliated Marketing
Marketing Automation
PPC(Pay per Click)

ETC. So now we can say that SEO comes under Digital Marketing.
SEO is a part of Digital Marketing. Digital Marketing includes SEO, SMO, SEM, SMM... etc
SEO is the part of digital marketing, digital marketing includes SMO, SMM, SEM, Email Marketing, Affiliate Marketing...etc
What makes you think in house team will yield better performance?

An Agency is management fee + media



You obviously don't know where to start. Why do you think this strategy will be more successful?
It's pretty hard to say what you need without knowing the company and level of campaigns you're running.


Running an in-house team is tough, if you don't have the experience I'd seriously consider just look for another agency. You can (and should) have total control when you work with agencies.
What kind of business is it? I’m thinking that different industries might have a different answer here. 



If you’d like, I’d be happy to run an audit for you and let you know a few different things:

1. What is working and what isn’t working in your existing campaigns
2. What needs to be done to improve them
3. Based on what needs to be done - what skills you need to improve the campaigns and what you may want to hire internally to support the workload.

As mentioned above, hiring internally would not be financially prudent versus hiring an agency that knows what they’re doing, or at a minimum, hiring a consultant to give you professional guidance on what to do next. Once you have a plan then you can hire internally if there’s a good fit for it.


You can dm me if interested
There is no one right way to build a team. You build a team based on your needs and where you see yourself in a year. Maybe you have a designer and campaign manager. Maybe you have a campaign manager and a data person. Maybe you keep your agency for somethings and bring some tasks in house. 2 people isn't a lot if you want to do everything. You either get expects who can do a few things or you get a jack of all trades who can do everything but maybe not as well as people who specialize in one or two things.
If your campaign doesn't present a clear value proposition to the target audience/consumer, you don't actually have a [well thought out] campaign. Channels, platforms, budgets, etc., are all secondary to this. 
Look at your New/Returning ratio, and look at your Desktop/Mobile ratio. Adjust from there.

Create an exit-intent lightbox prompting a discount code (have the trigger be first-time visitors, have it on product pages, make trigger once lead has been scored high enough, etc)


At the end of the 1-2 day period (aka when the "unique" coupon expires), send the leads who didn't convert an email saying you've extended their coupon so they can still redeem. 

don't be to hard on yourself and underestimate research
The number one reigning tip for you is creating High-Quality Long form content. Do not go lightly on this. This is not stressed enough for people having blogs and writing blog posts. For ranking better, the kind of content that you push out, has to belong form, and of top notch quality. This kind of content is loved by Google and will eventually help you rank higher too. And also, keep pushing out content regularly. Freshness is also rated highly in Google's eyes.
Hope it helps. Cheers!
Try to build back link for your blog post, in my opinion this the best digital marketing practice to create genuine and organic traffic. Reach out influencer and other blog writers for link exchange. This will give boost to your blog on SERP.


No experiments without initial research. Digital marketing is not magic, constant monitoring of tendencies helps to predict future impact and new tendencies. User's behaviour has patterns and you just need to hit the nail on the head with your offer or ad.
Fail as much as possible.
Try reading this book, "Jab, jab, jab, Right hook" by Gary Vayernchuk. It'll help you understand what type of content is suitable for a social media platform. Learn the native language of each platform, learn how to story tell in context of your content.
I'd say it's best to learn as you roll with it, trial and error. Post different kind of content alongside different captions and hashtags, see what works for you and what doesn't, optimize and do more of seems to be working well.

Engage with other users on the platform as well, try to be as active as possible with liking and commenting on other people's content. 

Find profiles with big audiences that repost the best content from people that used their dedicated hashtag.

That's just a few simple pieces of advice but it should get the ball rolling for you!

Consider using your logo or another familiar image. Instagram profile pictures are automatically cropped into a circle, so leave room around the corners of your image.

 Next up — your Instagram bio. Instagram bios have a 150-character maximum, so your goal here is a direct, concise summary of who you are and why people should follow you. Tell your audience about your business using a hint of personality. Instagram bios aren’t searchable, so don’t worry about keywords or hashtags. 
I recently saw a video on Youtube, in that the guy hacks an app using lucky patcher and targets people using relevant hashtags and location. Thus making an instagram page more popular among the right audience. Hence increasing its followers. Seach for "digi singh" on youtube for the video.
Great post! Thanks for the info!

Most agencies out there are frauds who are trying to make a quick buck without having to provide any quality service. It's like they are hunting by cunningly luring prey into their trap.
I like this... 

Thank you... 



Hope this helps and best of luck! Cheers!
I'd be onboard for this.
Great idea. 
I think additional tags like [Facebook], [AdWords], [Twitter], [Instagram] etc. would also be really useful. I mainly came here for Facebook and Twitter and had to search and sift through a lot to find some of the answers I was looking for. 
I think additional tags like [Facebook], [AdWords], [Twitter], [Instagram] etc. would also be really useful. I mainly came here for Facebook and Twitter and had to search and sift through a lot to find some of the answers I was looking for. 
Google and Facebook both have certification programs. So I would start there to get your bearings and understand how each platform works. 

Then either YouTube or udemy for strategy 

But doing it yourself will be your best teacher! So start a side project
I would \- make your own wordpress blog and 'seo' it.


\- Do the w3 schools html & CSS certifications

good luck
I agree with the comments here. One of the best ways is to just get your feet wet with a blog and test out strategies for yourself.  If you pick a topic you’re interested in, you can have a lot of fun with it. 

To stay updated and continue my learning I listen to podcasts (the Social Media Examiner has a good one), read blogs, and follow groups on different social media platforms.

Typically I try to invest at least a few minutes everyday to do this. You can really learn a lot just by reading what people are saying. 

I’ve also personally used the Google AdWords training program and found it to be very helpful. 

Another training program that I’m a fan of is [Boot Camp Digital](www.bootcampdigital.com). They have different programs and training sessions with videos that focus on many aspects of digital marketing.  Full disclosure - I’m currently doing some part time with them, so this is of course a plug. But I have personally gone through a lot of training and learned a lot. 




I have started compiling the compilation of courses and resources based on the mentoring I have offered to a dozen of people interested in digital marketing and it has helped. Hope it helps you as well:
https://www.teemium.com/learning-path-self-taught-digital-marketing-mastery/
If you are looking to up your Digital Marketing knowledge start with Distilled which will then help you to do the Google certifications once you have finished. 
Google.
This is a great idea!

Great post as always Walsh, I’ve got an article about how to use Facebook’s organic reach more effectively. https://blog.kissmetrics.com/is-facebook-organic-reach-dead/
I love this also! Interesting study from Nielsen and Twitter
http://todayonsocial.com/2018/04/24/twitter-ads-drive-tv/ 

Also Twitter learning from Facebook's mistake:
https://www.reuters.com/article/us-twitter-privacy/twitter-updates-user-data-policy-ahead-of-new-european-privacy-laws-idUSKBN1HV24N
- AdWords campaigns
- analytics reports 


Then it's focusing on whatever new task, system, or initiative I have in front of me. This may be adding items to a store, performing some basic SEO tasks, etc etc. 















I think that my experience might be of relevance for you as I have joined an agency as my first work.


- First looking up at my Client's plan and schedule and make sure that all things regarding Display are up and running as planned;

- Then I will be moving on to update our Email, Affiliate and Display Controls so that I can take some conclusions regarding the performance of the creatives and make recommendations to our client;

- If there is a campaign that might be starting in the near future I need to create the trackers for each support and format so that then I can send to them to implement and test;

 - I also have a lot of training on relevant subjects like Programmatic Ads, Analytics, AdWords, Facebook Ads, etc.


Hope my comment is valuable for you :)
Wistia is awesome for this type of information, especially if you're new to video for business. Love their friendly, colorful vibe and lack of jargon.
Indeed, Wistia is a great source for basic info!

If you're getting into video marketing, you might also be interested in interactive videos. There are several tools that allow you to add interactive layers to your videos so you can include questions, click-throughs, contact forms, etc. to make your videos more efficient.

Here's a good basic article on the basic feature of interactive video and some examples: https://www.ojoo.com/interactive-video-examples-business/
RemindMe! One Week
As I started learning about Digital Marketing, the two I've enjoyed were: Online Marketing Made Easy with Amy Porterfield /and/ Social Media Marketing Podcast with Michael Stelzner.  They each touch base on a regular basis all aspects of digital marketing. I'm sure there are others, but these are ones where I've started. 
I think there's a lot ahead of you that you should be excited about! Digital marketing is something I've been doing since the early 2000's and while that might not seem like a long time - the landscape has changed significantly in that time. 


I got bored of SEO and took a head-first dive into PPC after that. I spent a few years learning AdWords, Bing PPC,  and about a dozen other platforms. 


My book recommendations are coming, but I thought it to be an important point to address that it's okay to not know exactly what you want to do, just pick something that's interesting enough to keep your attention for a few years.


Plan ahead and expect to invest some if your hard earned money back into learning. 



**The Greatest Salesman in the World** by If Mandino


**Trust Me I'm Lying** by Ryan Holiday


**Tools of the Titans** by Tim Ferris

*Not your typical sit down and read type of book, this is a collection of interviews and conversations that Tim has had with some outstanding people. Currently I try to read an excerpt from the book every morning right after I wake up (somewhat like a mental meditation).*

**Influence** by Robert B Cialdini


**The Compound Effect** by Darren Hardy


**Thinking Fast & Thinking Slow** by Daniel Kahneman


**Who Moved My Cheese** by Spencer Johnson


**Mad Genius** by Randy Gage


When you're ready to start reading about how to actually get started, here are some free content sources that are amazing:

[**Neil Patel's blog**](http://neilpatel.com/blog/)

This guy knows how to do content marketing and sets the bar pretty high if you want to master the techniques as well as he did. It's still one of the sites that I will read from regularly (I also listen to their podcast, but don't think that's anywhere near as good)

[**DigitalMarketer's blog**](https://www.digitalmarketer.com/blog/)

There's a special place for DigitalMarketer in my life because I've learned so much from them over the last several years. Ryan has a pretty decent approach when he's talking and teaching (and a lot of his team is good too) and the information they give is often the real deal that you don't find anywhere else. My only word of caution would be to proceed with caution as I've spent thousands upon thousands of dollars on their paid courses over the years. I have no regrets in doing so, each time I paid for a course I made far more back from what I learned - but my friends and family think I'm crazy for spending as much as I have.


[**HubSpot's blog**](https://blog.hubspot.com/)

I didn't want to like them, but the simple fact is that they are (and have been for some time) a leader in the digital marketing space and while I might now always care for the style of writing - the content and variety of topics that you can find on their blog is outstanding. 


[**Russell Brunson's blog**](http://russellbrunson.com/)





If you're looking for a future job or career. Find the career first and dive into everything you need to learn about and get certifications if needed. Don't just read. Practice. 

When I first started, I would create small online companies modeling the specific jobs I wanted to attain.  Then, I would tell the prospective about that product I created or assisted in creating. 

The digital marketing space moves fast. I would say your best bet would be to focus on core marketing principals (testing, analytics, data modeling) and follow best practices, articles and blogs of influencers in your given area of interest.

Find job descriptions of companies you'd like to work in, see how they describe the positions and find information around those areas.  Then, go forth and practice it for awhile.  Maybe start by volunteering to do so for a community organization, a club, or something.

Just my $0.02 as someone whose been in the space since before spam existed.  I've never seen a book worth the price, I've always learned from the community at large.
What are your goals and/or what do you envision yourself doing that makes you happy?

"Digital marketing" is a broad category.
Thanks for sharing these are reference!
I prefer you to go through some online tutorials too, yeah books are the best choice but some online stuff might be helpful too for you.
Read a shit ton, implement what you can and then learn from your mistakes.

Regarding the reading, here are some sites I frequent:
- MOZ for SEO
- Social Media Examiner for social...obviously
- Jon Loomer for Facebook
- Distilled for more SEO and content marketing
- Shopify blog for e-commerce 

I don't focus on PPC too much, and I'm sure the same rules apply, but with regards to Facebook advertising... TEST. ABSOLUTELY. EVERYTHING. Seriously, take 5-10% of your ad budget and test every variable or demographic you're considering and then hammer the best performing with 90% of the budget. 


Check out Gary Vaynerchuk on YouTube. Some find him obnoxious but honestly, he speaks a lot of common practical sense that you can learn from and apply to your own day-to-day. 

Hope this helps. Good luck!
Learn google tag manager.  It will help you track things on websites that you'll need for your clients like what external links are clicked it what videos are played and how much of the video is viewed. Learning about utm code best practices will be helpful.  Get a subscription to SEOmoz, read their blogs. Learn about local search and read up on mobile trends, you'll be asked about those. Agree with your client about what you're tracking upfront and why. Be analytics driven. Automate reporting as much as you can and keep it as simple as you can. Buying banner space directly from publishers I find to be the most expensive.  Try to get space from auction models if your client is flexible like from the google display network.  But also think outside of banners.  Generally buy on cpc not cpm. 
Here's a blog I've written for in the past that has lot of good content on PPC, Adwords, & Analytics - https://klientboost.com/blog/

Heatmaps are the easiest thing in digital marketing, so I wouldn't worry too much about those, but if you want to find some content, another site I've written a lot for is a heatmap SaaS company. Needless to say, they have a lot of relevant content you can check out on that topic - https://blog.crazyegg.com/

Read through this:
https://www.campaignmonitor.com/blog/email-marketing/2016/03/definitive-guide-to-40-definitive-marketing-guides/

Especially the second Moz - Noob Online Marketing guide. This on helps you understand the different types of digital marketing and how they all work coherently. 

I was in the same boat as you a year ago. In short, I was tasked with creating logos for the company and its products (20+ logos), a website, and now their entire digital marketing "department". Oh, and I'm the only person in this "department". My background you ask? I'm a science major, certified IT technician, and part-time graphic designer. 

I'm sure you'll be fine. Good luck!
Keep up with the news, as said below - this round up is pretty helpful

http://www.ricemedia.co.uk/blog/monthly-round-10-things-happened-digital-marketing-july/


Learn digital marketing from top-notch global experts! The interactive courses at the Digital Marketing Institute of America are created on practical, real-life experience of what is required when applying online marketing techniques in today’s fast-paced world. Our digital marketing courses are FREE and taught online, via video-based lessons.

Check out: http://www.dmioa.com/
No.
No. But I do feel it sometimes helps. For some candidates that I see, they include their portfolio which includes projects that they have done in the past. Having a strong online presence is kind of your portfolio. Shows your creativity and copywriting skills is your post are written well.
Genuine question, why do you want to work in the space if you don’t participate in it? 

Is it an issue that you don't have an accounts on these platforms? No. 

But only if you have in-depth knowledge about how to create and produced successful campaigns through the said platforms. If you don't have accounts with these platforms, you probably don't have in-depth knowledge on how things like the Ads Manager work for creating campaigns. And that would be the issue here.
No. Even if you did you should keep in private.
No but it helps
No, but having a good social media presence helps you to showcase your abilities to the employer.
I’m head of digital advertising department and recently needed to hire two new team members. I cant say that their social media presence was critical, but it was still important. 


Also, for me one of the most important thing is how new member will fit in my team. And having a snoop on social media can help you estimate if persons characteristics will fit your group dynamic.
I think its important to have a social media presence. You are into digital marketing, right? Shouldn't you be good in sharing seeing you are in a field where sharing is obviously a major part of the deal?


&#x200B;

Now if there is something that would separate some digital marketers from the rest of the pack, then, design and behavioral economics would do the trick.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps

&#x200B;

For sure it will be an advantage.

I’ve been doing digital marketing strategy for the last 12 years. I define that as everything from website strat (Info architecture, requirements gathering, to content strategy), social strategy (community engagement, channel management and content strat), email marketing strat. And digital media strat (display, paid search, paid social) and  None of those need you to touch code. 


That said, having an understanding of coding won’t hurt you as it gives you additional insight into the technical aspect of the projects. 



I think you're at an absolute insane disadvantage without this knowledge if you want to go into digital marketing.



And for actual marketing funnels, you still don’t need to do anything technical thanks to plugins and SaaS. 

If you can use a mouse then you already have all the technical skills you need.
If you know how to modify/edit/create landing pages or modify landing pages from scratch, (Using CSS/HTML/JS/etc) you can work within any CMS that your client is already running. That makes it a lot easier to get results for your client if you can get them a better landing page than everyone else that reports better, more nuanced data.


Or would you rather hire the company that sends PPC traffic to the homepage or just hacks together awful WP plugins and themes that give them the same generic metrics everyone else gets? 

I see a lot of people saying you don't need any coding, or that you can launch a website in minutes in WordPress...


Don't post about your products. Post about your audience.
Can't really tell you much as I'm not sure what sort of products you are selling but I guess at this stage where there is so much noise and unfavorable algorithm change for brands....you should just focus on content quality. Could be as few as once a month or once a quarter..but everytime you post, it is something ppl will look forward to!
Customer pictures are always great - If not try creating blogs that are relevant to the products you sell. Blogs are handy for SEO as well as giving you content to promote on social media.
Honestly just based on my opinion, do not drop out. It’s better to have a degree and pursue your other interest in any free time you may have (without sacrificing your studies). Even with a lower GPA, your skills you acquire from the collegiate classes and applying them and practicing while in school and after will aid you in the future. IT is a great career path and in the technologically advancing world and your craft will be sought after. Keep at it! You got this

&#x200B;


&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Good luck.
Possessing an IT degree and then pivoting into digital marketing (maybe doing an MBA addon later) is a unique career path. You basically get to work on some of the key stuff guys from business school aren't comfortable with - be it SEO, Google Adwords or Marketing Analytics. Plus if you're a good programmer, you can code your own scripts for data aggregation, mining and most importantly, generating the reports.
Get your IT degree and then look into working in ad tech.
Definitely, especially if your school keeps you up-to-date with the latest practices used in the IT field. IT is always one of the best foundations one can have to excel in the digital marketing industry. Have a degree in IT will give you the advantage.

Plus, the diploma you'll get will speak much about how you got it through college, not to mention it's IT, which is a difficult course.
Sure its really worth . There are many Graduates looking for IT jobs ,Depend on the IT courses you can get a good job in IT Company .



For more content to read, I'd suggest: 

* HubSpot 
* Social Media Examiner 
* Social Media Explorer 
* Moz 
* Search Engine Journal 
* Buffer (Blog)
* Sprout Social (Blog)  

These are good entry-level resources to give you a baseline of digital advertising + other practices in this space. 

&#x200B;
I’m in a similar situation right now. I’m currently going through Hubspots free certification. They have a lot of different aspects and trainings of digital marketing that they offer all for free
You'd be well served to work for someone and learn the trade before you can get expect clients to pay for the privilege of your work.
I've been thinking about this myself. I've found a couple of post grad certificates in digital marketing that are offered by local colleges and universities in Toronto. I'm not sure whether I should pursue digital marketing or data analysis. I've read numerous articles state that digital marketing is actually a waste of time and doesn't work as well as people think it does. There are some jobs, but I wonder if this career path has a future.
I'd be cautious if I were you. Get an entry level job and learn the ropes for a year before diving in to this.


I like the concept, but digital marketers don’t always like sharing their secrets.

If you figure out a hot new angle or niche or method for brining in sales people are obviously reluctant to share that information, because soon everyone will be doing it and there goes your competitive edge.

It’s not like the developer community where open source and sharing is the motto. It’s much the reverse unfortunately.



Just a quick preface, I'm relatively new to working professionally as a digital marketer. I work full-time for an organization helping with the digital marketing of our clients and our own company. 

>1)Do you often have questions related to your work / profession that can be answered by other people in your field? 

Most definitely

>2)How do you usually resolve these questions? Where do you go to find that information? (eg: personal contacts, whatsapp groups, organizations, or other online / offline methods) 


>3) Imagine being part of a community of other people in the same profession as you. What do you think about this idea? How helpful would this be for your career? What would you use this community for?


>4) Are you already part of such communities?  (eg: online / offline, whatsapp, organizations, colleagues, their personal networks etc) Could you please name them? 



>5) Please describe your experiences with these communities. 

I love wordcamp and the WordPress community as a whole. I find everyone to be quite helpful and willing to answer questions and share their expertise. As I don't follow the digital marketing communities there isn't much I can say about them. Stack overflow is a great source of information and I can usually find what I'm looking for within a few searches
Excellent copywriters and creative marketers can crush it on Facebook and IG (managing ad campaigns). Great copy can be the difference between profitable ads and poor ones, provided everything else is executed well (targeting, video/image creative, other technical settings).

Consider it! Especially if you’ve got a great interest/knack for data driven decision making.
There is a shortage of data scientists and it is very well paid so certainly have a look into that. If you can master Power BI, for example, that’s a niche which will keep you in work and well paid.
Analytics in general is massively in demand. It’s so hard to find people and most companies (not just agencies) need analysts. Social media analytics is a good niche and might use more of your writing/editing skills. 


Find the piece you love you will be there eventually...

All the best..
show your value. Find a local organization that could use your help and show them how you can be of help.
I'm a digital marketing manager for an African based telecommunications app. Our main office is in London though so I can't help you get hired unless you're here. But if you have any social media information or a website / portfolio online, I'd be happy to share it around. 
There’s a whole range of skill sets under digital, and different career tracks. 



There’s also the data track of DM, where people look into using data to improve marketing initiatives, through data mining, research, visualization and analysis. Career tracks: data analyst.

Finally, there’s the digital generalist, which are usually the jacks of all trade, with experience across the above mentioned functions within DM. They are the ones who tend to end up as all rounded digital managers/directors in smaller digital setups, or as a business director.

Depends on your interests, there are various trainings to dive into. Good luck!! 
I think HubSpot's Inbound Certification will give you a good place to start. It's free and it gives you some of the main elements of digital marketing to get you grounded. Like SEO, content marketing, email marketing, social, etc. You'll be exposed to a few things and you can see what you start to gravitate towards.

Good luck!


Good email marketing (nurture funnels) are always in demand. 
I recommend looking for an entry-level role at a small business or startup. Then you'll have the opportunity to dapple in a lot of those elements and see which one you like best as you develop your career. 
if you are a beginner you have to learn something about digital marketing like SEO  and most important part that how to get traffic to your offers and i am frankly saying you have to give some hours to learn this as a Newbie but after learning everything there are lot of chance to make your Future In Digital Marketing. There are lot of companies giving freelancers jobs so you can make Some Revenue From Home but for this you have to expert on your Niche and come with confidence on digital marketing Field if you will success No one can stop to fly in sky and it will Rain of Revenue 

If you're ops or campaign side you could get away with being an expert in one or two.

If you want to specialize hard in PPC/SEM kind of stuff, know about every channel. Spend extra time in the ones you think will be most useful for whatever you’re doing. My advice might’ve been different a couple years ago, but now it’s omnichannel.. diversified. 100% 
I recommend specializing but most recruiters think you should know everything in PPC. 🙄
When you're marketing anything, there is one platform that will bring you the largest portion of your traffic. It's different for different businesses. Some find Twitter useful. For some, Instagram is their biggest traffic converter. So, you gotta find what's your "thing" and be an expert in it. 

Eg one company might need a full time Google PPC specialist where as others would be fine with having a general paid specialist who operates over multiple channels.

Generally, it’s good to know multiple channels. 
You should try every channel whether it is FB, Google and, Amazon. After having a practical experience in all these channels. You can pick any one of this to be a specialist. I would not recommend you to be good only at one in the early days of your career. 
You should know about all digital marketing channels. It gives you a well rounded view. But it's impossible for anyone to become an expert on all of these. 



* Learning related channels makes you more effective at all of them


So you should learn about all and then go deeper with 2-3 related ones you find most exciting. 
The market definitely wants specialists/experts, that's where the hard skills are. I'd say focus in SEM because that's the most complex or RTB as it's the most recent and therefore not as much competition to get a job. The rest you can learn easily and it's a good plus. Big companies will hire a specialist for each channel while small companies will want someone that can do a little bit of everything so that's also something that you can factor in your decision.
100% yes.  It provides a couple of things to you:  First, you get a broader knowledge of marketing, which is far more helpful whether you are a single channel manager or a multi-channel manager.  Second, it provides you a ton more career choice.  If you choose to only do PPC, I sure hope you are going to love it the rest of your life as without knowledge of how the other channels work, you will be stuck.  Sort of on the other side, if you don't try other channels, how do you know what you like and don't like?  And third, people may disagree with this which is fine, but the world is moving toward more omni-channel right now.  Automation is forcing execution of individual channels away and more toward overarching strategy roles - which require broader thinking (totally understand there is some debate around this, but if you look at the trends of taking in-house, consulting companies buying agencies, agency holding companies trying to build consulting practices, and brands hiring for ecom, they tend to point in this direction).  Learn every channel as much as you can.  You can provide exponentially more value by knowing some of all channels than being an expert in just one (note: this doesn't apply to life, just digital marketing).
[removed]
You can **earn** high-quality links by creating an amazing piece of content that is useful to a certain group of people. The content can take various shapes - step-by-step guides, term definitions, tools... - but it needs to solve a particular problem for this particular set of users. 
If your piece of content solves the problem best but also if it's easy to find/promoted/ranks at top positions in search engines, you'll be able to **earn** links. 

As for the quality of those links? It all depends on the topic and industry and you can't really control who gives you the links and how good of a quality they are. But the best thing about those links is that they will be truly earned (natural) and you'll get the backlinks from sites that are relevant to your niche, which is also great. For someone to give you a link without you asking for it, means that they've found you useful enough to share with others. Which in turn means that you're gaining their trust and are establishing yourself as an authority in the field, which Google loves and rewards. These types of links also have the tendency to get clicked on more, which is also great.


Creating the links yourself, or even helping with the creation of links, is an entirely different topic. Some of the tactics involved are already mentioned by other users.

1. Forum Postings
2. Social bookmarking
3. Local Business listings
4. Participating in question and answer websites
5. Blog creation and blog commenting
7. Infographic submissions
8. Article/classified submissions
9. Document/Video submissions
10. Web2.0 submissions...etc
  

Generating quality backlinks is very essential in terms of gaining visibility on the major search engines. But before generating backlinks you have to check the domain authority and page authority of a website where you are going to create a link.   
 

I would suggest a few ways.

**1. Guest post**

**2. Public relations**

**3. Broken link building**

**4. Skyscraper content**

**5. Compile a resource**

What's your website about? Is it a business website?

I like to think of link building as partnership building. It's not just you who is looking to benefit from the article/webpage you're making but so is the website/business that will be sharing your link. The question is, what benefit exists for them to link to your website?

Here's a strategy I'm putting together for a client today. They run a local outdoor/garden hardware store (chainsaws, lawnmowers, water blasters...you get the idea) that sells well-known and lesser known brands.  We are going to be creating videos and blog posts on how to service and maintain certain products and brands. This is content that will be helpful to all owners of the products. 

Before I even think about creating any content, I'm first reaching out to the manufacturers of said products with some content ideas and getting them to agree to share that content on their news/blog and social media pages. Rather than spending time creating content and hoping for the best, I'm negotiating with brands first and "earning" a backlink before any content even exists. This content is going to be helpful to that manufacturer's customers so I get their input and create something that will be of benefit to both parties.

&#x200B;
Create high quality back-links is a part of Search Engine Optimization. It is one of the most important ranking factor by many search engines. 

* Submit Infographics which is the most popular methods for bringing traffic to your website and gaining valuable backlinks.
* Guest blogging is the effective way to reach new audiences and also get high quality backlinks. (You need to contact bloggers or websites that are related to your niche and post /submit content on weekly or monthly basis.) 
* To get links to your website, you have to reach journalists and influencers which are working in your niche. Spread the word about your business.
* Find nonprofit organizations and give some donations you to earn backlinks. 
* Reviews Submission is also be the another best option  

Furthermore, you can directly PM me for more details or technical help. 
There are various ways through which you can earn quality backlinks as below:

* Guest posting on quality sites.
* It is important to build public relations. The best way is to get cited as a source in a news article. 
* Write a quality content. 
* Find the backlinks build by the competitors and build yours there.

&#x200B;
Generating high quality backlinks is time consuming. I suggest you follow the process mentioned above and I would add sponsored article.

This can be automated through a native advertising platform by location, domain authority, media topic... Depending on your location I can help with this task.
Social Bookmarking

Blog commenting

Forum Postings

Ad Postings
Check Ahrefs and backlinko. They have lots of ideas. 
recently all brands and influencer have run the Campaign some of them give amazing offer.
The free courses at Moz are a great start. They're thought leaders and know their shit.

https://moz.com/learn/seo
You can check out backlinko YouTube channel,  he is great with Seo.. 
If you can afford ~$15/mo for hosting (some less, some more), I suggest building your own affiliate website and try to rank it. During that process, you will learn a ton about what it means to be an SEOer. 




You'll get loads of free courses in SEO and UX, and they'll give you certifications you can publish on your LinkedIn! Shows initiative and drive and that you are eager to learn. 
There are many SEO blogs which you can go through and get different tips and tricks related to SEO. Some of the best blogs are Google Webmaster Central Blog, Search Engine Land, Search Engine Journal, The SEM Post, etc.
Best way to learn SEO is to implement practically and the best way to do is to open a blog or a website and do all the experiments there and for initial guidelines follow moz blog and ahrefs blog 
Search Engine Optimization or more commonly known as SEO is a procedure to maximize the website visits through quality organic search engine results.


&#x200B;

>What other important tools or programs are useful for digital marketers?

1. **Google Analytics**
2. **Google Webmaster Tools**
3. **Bing Webmaster Tools**
4. **Google AdWords Keyword Planner**
5. **Keywordtool.io**
6. **Screaming Frog**

Map listings, videos, statistics, graphs and more are also several other listings that can help your website to appear and rank high in the search engine results.

There's a free SEO course at SEO101.com
There are many online platform or websites to learn SEO, Some websites are-

Web Savvy marketing

SEO 101

google

[Moz.com](https://Moz.com)

webmaster world
 

You can read anything by Moz  and Rand Fishkin

And Lots of great SEO content from Neil Patel


Good luck!
Sounds like you’ve bitten off a lot here - without having hands on experience, I’ll be honest, you seem slightly ill placed, however I can’t knock your entrepreneurial approach. 

Here’s what I would suggest. 

1. Understand what success looks like for each of these clients. 
2. Create your own measurement framework/scoring system for each element - use this as an initial audit and present to them (standardising will make life much easier).
3. From their objectives/success KPI and the measurement framework, identify the opportunities. 

In the background you need to be working on your process, soft skills and tech requirements. 

You’re in a position where you can also easily over promise and not understand the time you’ll need - make sure you get an understanding of the market in your area when you quote. 


There’s a host of soft skills you need to rally aside from DM. 
CRM
Invoicing
Negotiations 
Reporting
Consistent client communication. Agree on expectations (monthly or weekly calls depending on budget) and make it happen. Beyond good fulfillment, I credit most of my retention to having built good relationships with clients via monthly status calls. It’s easier to fire a vendor than a friend, etc. And it needs to be genuine - when a client really thinks you care about the success of their business, you get a lot of latitude to experiment, make mistakes, and improve your processes.
You can't take care of everything. Make sure you have a designer/photographer/film/copywriter person that can help you with creating the content + ads. Let your client know that social ads need to be rotated at least 1 per month. Most of the clients that I have worked with and failed is due to too little budget/unrealistic expectations and their inability to produce the quantity of multimedia required to have an effective digital marketing strategy.
Set expectations appropriately 
You have to be able to deliver on what you spoke of...first and foremost.  Start with the low hanging fruit to help you build momentum and go from there.  If you have any questions, let me know.
I don't understand how to add FAQ to your listings . I have looked all over for this and can't seem to find it. The only solution I have heard is to go on your company account and literally submit the questions and answer them . Is that waht you are referring to?
American here and I agree with you. A landing page is meant to stand alone while pages on a website, including the homepage, depend on other pages for context. A landing page is also meant to tell a prospect to take action while non-landing pages don't have to have an action.


Your definition is correct.  
Guys is talking about creating a marketing funnel over a website probably. So all pages do become landing pages in a way.

Both are corrent. You are watching from singularity while he from whole point of view. 
  

I see the popular opinion and tend to agree with it, but doesn’t GA call any page a user enters a website a “landing page?”
I personally agree with GA's definition. Why add more confusion than necessary? Call it what you want, but I like to stay consistent
Salesforce, Pardot, Zapier, Slack, and Google Drive 
Slack, Hubspot, Drift, Pandadoc, and Lucky Orange
ClickUp for task management

Toggl for time tracking

ActiveCampaign/Hubspot/etc for automation - depending on the clients environment


Mailchimp for email campaigns 
 Moz Pro,  BuzzStream, DRIP, Teamwork, HubSpot Marketing.
TTD

GA

FB

Ghostery, moat, similar web

My strategists brainpower

2. Powtoon for video contents 


4. Semrush

keyword planner, hellobar, google analytics, hotjar, mailerlite
Time to add mine ;) 

Autopilot HQ:⚡️ (super underrated) 10x times better than mailchimp. Allows to integrate with twilio for sending sms and segmenting audiences and work flows 

Google Ad words:👂

ClickFunnels: 💩 love the builder (hate the API) 

Typeform:  ⌨️

Hubspot: ☢️

Bonus — hotjar 🔥 
Great thread. Following. 
What do you guys use to track Facebook ad campaigns? 
That's very hard, but:

Capsule, Zapier, Google Drive, Google Tag Manager, Mailchimp
Don't forget Asana.  
STAT - most comprehensive keyword tracking tool, for sure
GA - to understand the what and where of user behaviour 
UserZoom - to understand the how and why of user behaviour
Asana - for internal project management

2. Design tools (Photoshop, Canva)  
3. Analytics tools (GA, OWOX BI)  
4. Content marketing tools (Hubspot, SEMrush)  
5. Email marketing tools (MailChimp)
Reddit
When I was targeting people in the beauty salon niche. I noticed a lot of people are just buying likes to their page and you can tell because a person with 50,000 likes to their page getting 5-10 likes per post. I wonder if they are actually getting paying customers to their business using social media when the likes were bot traffic or bot likes. I recommended to a beauty salon to create a facebook group and showed them how to use a website to target people in their area that would love their service.  It was like using Facebook Ads without paying for Facebook Ads. They just have to add them as friends and then add them to their group. 
Optimizing opengraph image preview files for blogs and important pages. Just this week I tried to share a job opening at our firm that is being handled by an external recruiter, and the preview image was a lowres version of their logo that I couldn’t overrude. Utter shit. 
[deleted]
Unsplash too!
I use Pexels. Works pretty well for lifestyle imagery. 
It honestly depends on what you do. Marketing is a large, varying field. Where does your experience lie, and what is your goal?


A lot of people just don’t have access to people who actually know what they are doing in advertising and are dying for someone who can get them a return on their advertising dollar. Since this is a conversation I’ve had a thousand times I know how to sell through that angle. 
Cold email. Or cold call. If this is your first client, I hope you have cash socked away.  Or a second job.  




&#x200B;

From my experience, i noticed that a lot of marketers we're indifferent when it came to numbers as before creativity, PR and execution were the only ones really necessary. When it comes to digital marketing, numbers and analytics play a very very huge role.

&#x200B;

However, being good in numbers and analytics isn't enough to make you a successful digital marketer as marketing isn't really pure logic. A lot of digital marketing questions are still arbitrary --- like how "targeted is targeted" in creating an audience, what's the importance of frequency aside from it's literal meaning.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Background: agency owner at a martech firm with >$3M ann rev. College dropout. :)

Quick Answer: No. The question isn't universally answerable. So, my personal opinion is that it depends on many individual attributes, strengths, and character qualities. 

Hunger, Hustle, Humility. 

Those are the three trite little buzzwords that I try to box people up in who I'd like to work with. 


** their professors are completely incapable of keeping up with the latest digital marketing trends. They are usually learning 10 yo generalities. 

Instead I look for Econ, Stats, Finance, CS majors. Marketing requires an understanding of finance - if you're going to be a high paid marketer, you need to justify your worth as a revenue generator, not a cost overhead. 


The other degrees I've had success employing are on the oposite spectrum; english, political science, graphics design, and other liberal arts genre degrees. These people are usually a little more on the "dreamer quadrant" but once they graduate, some of them get fully engulfed in a hustle mode and end up using that creativity in amazing marketing ways. They're great with strategy. They're great with customers. But, they're smart enough to quickly assimilate the martech. These people are going to be the future CMOs. I love them.

Now here's where it gets weird. I like drop outs. 


I am finding that more and more college graduates come with a feeling of entitlement. Ok, please for fucks sake just hear me out on this. It's not a rule - it's a gross generalization. I get that. But, it's not your typical millenial bs complaint. 


But, start-ups and agencies aren't like that. The enterprises we work with aren't either. Maybe the government is? Big4 consulting is.... for sure. 


Instead, top performers bring creativity, ideas, and most importantly a sense of responsibility and activated sense of DOING into the organization. 



Thats just a current theory of mine. 

Basically - you don't need a degree to succeed in marketing. You will have to pay your dues some other way.... What you need to show, whether you have a degree in Fine Art, Econ, CS, or a f*(#* GED - is that you are smart, and GET SHIT DONE. 



/.02


A marketing degree isn't a pre-requisite to succeeding in digital marketing. But it also doesn't guarantee success. Some of the best people I know in the space didn't have a marketing background to start with. 
Digital marketing involves many things. It is just an applied form of regular marketing. Of course you have to know the basics of digital advertising, but you have to know how to build marketing strategies. For which, marketing experience is required. 
Your comment is vague. We don't know how good you are at social media. 

It depends on what you want to be good at too. 

Knowing who you are targeting is far more important. 


I don't mean to be crass. 

Read Russell Brunson's book. It's free. Start with the foundation first. 
If you want to go for a paid course that covers most of the essential techniques of digital marketing, I recommend Lynda Online Marketing course and Udemy Complete Digital Marketing Course. 


Good Luck
Echoing your question as my company offers 1k a year for continued learning in any direction so long as it’s somewhat relevant. I’ll be curious to see what others recommend.


Also check the Mangools blog, there's plenty of SEO and digital marketing tricks & tips, inlcuding SEO guides for beginners. 

When it comes to others, I like Ahrefs, Kissmetrics and some articles by Moz.
Well outside of my own (http://todayonsocial.com), I love Marketing Land (which is a part of SEJ mentioned below), I also get a lot from The Verge and TechCrunch. 
Depends what you wanna read about! I like MarTech Advisor for industry news etc. But I read Lunametrics for Analytics stuff. WeSM are a good all rounder and I generally find myself flicking through AdWeek because creative ads are easy to digest ;)
Chief Martec and Digital Doughnut come to mind... and for some weekly comic relief, I do like Marketoonist.
Big fan of SearchEngineLand
[removed]
Well done! Now to learn the things the certification doesn't teach you!
How many hours did it take you to complete it?

Hahahaha You’re ABSOLUTELY ready for the world!
Maybe share some of your favorite tips and things you learned.
Besides pageviews and link clicks, what are some unique conversions you think we should all be tracking?
I got a bartender Cert.!! X-P!!
But do you have Bing? Supposedly 10% of searches are there. (I have Bing)
there are some awesome free Slack Channels that do this. 

Look up Online Geniuses or Measure - both awesome slack channels i'm apart of that do exactly that for oyu. 
Masters student here - I'd be interested in this.
[removed]
Yes, please! 

priceless.
Love it haha
Yes, it's very good for beginners​, it covers almost every thing about the digital marketing, i have the certificate, it's good for the cv, even if we you are not a beginner, after that the hubspot inbound course certificate, is really good, you will learn hows digital marketing should be really done
Apart from that, you can use Primer App for learning digital marketing.
Hubspot is another source where you can learn the practical ways to promote the business through integrated digital marketing primarily inbound techniques.
Later on, you can learn, practice and use other advanced marketing strategies.
Only if you are getting paid for it.
It depends on your contract. Clients always request services that are outside the agency's scope of work and that they aren't paying for and that should never be the case because it'll never end.

I personally prefer that the agency create all the content since they will know what kind of visuals/copy will best fit the strategy while the client won't always know. The wrong content can be counterproductive and usually leads to the client getting pissed that they're not getting the results they want.
I offer it for my clients that are in real estate or BNBs. I find if they have the option to do everything in one place, they’ll go that route. The less links in the chain, the better (for the client).
I mean actual business pictures has immense impact on sales as it entails the element of social proof
I would say matters how good of photos you need and want for the strategy. If your really trying to be successful and want high quality photos and certain things captured in the photos than yes I would be taking my own.
Not so much may or may not be according to requirements
Chuck contract, chuck every industry practice out of window. Client chose the DMA with a belief that you will deliver value. You chose your client with a belief that you can deliver value.

Clients will be lethargic and dodgy when you want them to do some work. But remember, pictures are important in branding and making that first impression. It makes the targeted customer take a closer look. Good picture helps you gain split second leverage when the ads is live. When the campaign is successful you retain a customer. 

Clients may provide great pictures. If that’s not the case, it’s DMA’s duty to CONVINCE how important the picture is to run a successful campaign and how it can impact the Ad ROI. Pictures can make or break a campaign. Convey this in the discussion stage and ask the client to provide best pictures. 

Mostly clients would hate to go through the struggle of finding a good photographer and all the process. If they are up for the game you got what you need. 


Second way is, the DMA can hookup photographer and client. In return for reference and value, DMA can use the photographer on other projects.


I would do data science or analytics at the very least. You can get into digital marketing but data science and analytics are very sought after positions, and future machine learning (5-10 years) will replace a lot of the data entry type jobs like digital media buyers, and other entry level digital marketing jobs. Stay ahead of the trends, my friend.

&#x200B;



Short courses could be another option.

If you can demonstrate knowledge, you'll be fine but it does take a lot of effort
Getting a degree in graphic design or videography may be more beneficial.


Btw, £100k budget sounds so dope to spend across multiple platforms. I hope i reach that level soon. 

Mind how long have you been in DM?
Create a new landing page and run ads there. 
MailChimp if you don't know development, html/CSS grid if you want to create something that will stand the test of time (backlink).
Also, you need to be aware that Facebook will increase the cost after a period of time whereas Google ads will reduce it. 

Hope it helps
The UI/UX of a website is vital for submitting a lead form. It needs to be as easy as possible, with the least amount of work for the potential new client. I use HotJar to track our visitors behavior on the site, and this helps us with tinkering certain things to make the person's "wants/needs" easily available. If people are having to click 7 times to submit an application or what not, you will 100% turn potential clients away. Little tweaks like this could do wonders for your lead gen.
Looks like a lot of comments here already gave you some great ideas. But let's give you 3 from my point of view.

1. Creating a simple landing page is way more effective than having a shitty one. Especially if customers journey is a mess. 
2. Webinars are not only great for new leads but also for adding a bonus for already existing customers, which can lead to more leads if done with point 3.
3. Email marketing: Create a coupon for referrals - with already existing leads. (example: refer your friend - get $50 Amazon coupon)

Good luck!
7 clicks!?



Not worth the headaches.

Either that or you need to revisit the discussion based on the scope of the work, what you’ve uncovered, and what needs to be done to make it work for them. 

And this is where you are crystal clear moving forward along with upwelling them on any additional services you’d need to implement.


From the sound of it, they’re in control because you’re allowing the client to communicate anyway they want towards you...

And they clearly don’t understand their own issues or what makes sense in order to achieve results they want.


If they aren’t working on generating organic traffic or just thinking you have some magical solution, you’re spinning wheels.





I’d walk away and say thank you for the opportunity, but we are not the right fit. 

—
Mike
How many of those original leads converted? 

For the short term, retarget the ads and copy to start getting leads in again.

You should always A/B test to see which ads run best and which will be the control. 


Could be the copy...

Could be the offer... 


—
Mike

Good luck!
Word stream.com
You will learn from your own experience. And your question is incomplete no one can tell you about your ads budget. Beacuse you have not provided the enough details of your Facebook ads.
cool
Look into Interest & Instagram for that. I believe instagram has a lot of compilation accounts that could feature you for less than a hundred dollars and as far as pinterest goes  I am not really sure but it's definitely the right platform.
 Search engineer... That's a new one. I like it.

I'd say look to social as well. People aren't necessarily searching for your gallery or the artists involved but there's a ton of opportunity for those that haven't yet discovered the artists but end up loving their work.
Well, start with blog to bring some organic traffic from Google.
Continuous SEO , Social Media Marketing ( facebook , instagram ). You can use paid promotion option on social media . It is affordable and best to gain more followers .
What is facebook?
Paid social questions about targeting, ad group setup, etc.  Are you certified in FB Blueprint.  Organic social is largely useless for brand and revenue objectives. 
Examples of how you have led a team, and how you will generate leads/revenue 
Benchmark KPIs
Give me an example of a recent conflict you faced and how you resolved it...




I’ve recruited for a Social Media Manager role in my team recently and the things that the successful candidate demonstrated were:
- he was ready to challenge us on what we were currently doing on social media
- he brought lots of examples of his previous experience that was relevant to the role.

Do the above and you’ll be in with a chance. Good luck.
Definately if will not be....what is this that...
Thank you for the insight!

Tell Me about Yourself or some variation. 
If you have to ask I question whether you’re qualified to do it
Hey Kaizen.

Typically get a proper branding done, that counts a dark and light logo-kit and some color research that stays prominent on everything (website, business cards, mugs, flyers, etc).

Once you are done with the same, do some phrase researches and stick to a prominent phrase while describing the business on any sort of copywriting online/offline.


Regarding pricing, since the person you'll be doing the marketing is your friend, ask them if they can offer you their service/product for a cheaper price. If they say yes, quote a cheaper quo. Other wise stick to the industry standard pricing.


Hope it helps! Would be glad to answer you further.

Cheers. 
Hi!  


I am also planning a startup and currently working on it i can share the things i have been trying to do to escalate and market the business.   




Second brand awareness in related communities this takes alot of time but helps you alot in turn.  


&#x200B;
Brands have a great deal to do with what people believe. People are attracted to those with the same beliefs. If your client was a person, what would they believe? What are their values? What they do is merely a function of how they express their beliefs.



Statements of Work are referred to in services agreements, which dictate payment, severability, liability, etc. You might not think this is necessary, but maybe you want to be ready for the next opportunity that isn't your friend. Very good to do if you are a contractor instead of a Corporation. A corp protects you from damages. (eg they go out of business, sunk their investors money, etc.)

Statements of work contents..

 *  Business background
 *  Goals
 *  Discovery
 *  Planning
 *  Logo
 *  Web design
 *  SEO
 *  Email marketing
 *  Ads
 *  Social
 *  Content creation
 *  Etc...

There are likely to be subsections that include vendor selection, negotiation etc.

 *  Payment. If you've done this before, charge by the deliverable. It's a lot safer to bill by the hour, but don't expect to learn on their dime.


  


  


  

Must 
Start with a brand kit. Everything else comes from that.
My advice would be not to charge, do the favour and get out. For marketing to work you need to really understand your audience, sounds like he's a little unsure of what he's doing so it will never trickle down. 
Pick a simple, out of the box bones solution for the site. 


Make sure you're optimizing both site side and paid side. You can have the best click through, targeting, and creative in the world, but if the site experience is completely awful, site side conversion rate will drown you. 


Don't be afraid to invest to test, monitor updates closely, and good luck!
[removed]
Check the estimated first page bid. The CPC may just be too low to compete in the auction. Do a test and set the CPC to $10 and see what you get, as that will give you the data.
If the bid is not enough, it should be showing a message. How did you set the ad campaign, ad group, keyword for that ad?




Also worth creating a simple web page and rank for local SEO terms. e.g

\*City\* SEO service

\*City\* SEO expert


I'm always surprised at SEO agencies / experts that offer SEO services but fail to optimise their own websites!
Get the Fletcher Method course and work through it
I definitely wouldn’t start with cold emails, and agree starting locally and showing a business how you can help would be a great start.
It seems funnier when an SEO expert struggles to find leads. If you cant find yourself leads or clients how are you gonna give leads to your clients ??

First you have to identify how good you are at SEO. it's like telling people you can make them rich while you can't make yourself rich.

Few things I'll like you to understand as an seo expert are the following (I'll share a post on them later on but check yourself).

1. Do you understand what a code is?
2. Do you know what programming languages are and how they are used?
5. Do you know the difference between SEO and SEM and how they work?
6. Do you know how to conduct analysis of the SEO or SEM?
7. Do you know how website works?
8. Do you know how say google search for information online and the ranking order?

If your answers to the above questions are in the affirmative then thumbs up all you need is to create content (which I'll also make available, how to create best contents).

Besides some of the freelance networks like upwork, try AngelList which has tons of start-ups looking for freelance/contractors. Even ones looking for part time works, you can pitch them your services in the platform. 

But as a marketer and you want clients, you should have your own website too. Where you have about you, your services, and write blog content that shows your knowledge and so people find you. Additionally, if you have some budget, try paid ads of your services. 

Everybody does 
I see this question come up often here. 


No. All you need are the skills and a foot in the door. 

dont go to college, it is unrelated. get an internship in dm ...now.
There are a lot of online possibilities, I’d say any will be better solution that college. Quality blogs, Udemy courses, YouTube courses. Just get the basics and try to find some internship.
Lynda.com. Go to your local library and get a card, then take Lynda courses for free. Then get on Upwork. Land some freelances gigs to build a resume. Leverage those to get bigger work. Build resume. Get job for agency or launch a company.


My advice is do both. Get a marketing degree, and teach yourself the technical digital marketing skills on your own. 

Take advantage of free google training and other digital marketing certifications too. 

It also depends the job you are going for. Many jobs have degree on the qualifications....so having one probably gets you and interview or maybe a good in the door. I know plenty people in the industry without one.

Depends.
This question comes up a lot, especially in threads.



However, there are alternatives. There are 9-month schools for specific degrees in specialized areas of marketing. There are places like General Assembly where you can learn and still have something to show. On top of that, take free online certifications like Google AdWords and Analytics. Takes HubSpot's inbound marketing courses, listen to podcasts, start a blog and test out what you learn, etc. All that can be helpful in learning and getting your foot in the door.


As other comments mention too, it depends how far you want to go as well and how technical of a position you want.


Relevant would be Marketing, Comp Sci.

Technical (data architecture, marketing technology, full stack dev) would be Math/Stats, Comp Sci, Computer Engineering, Data Science.

There's a few people that went through "boot camps" here too, either for web dev or digital marketing. I think those definitely help you land a job, but is it worth the money? Hard to say. You could build a similar portfolio for a lot less with something like Lynda.
Jesus Christ. Here's a quote I read once 
'most people who tell you to follow your dreams haven't achieved theirs yet.' 

People telling you to go college don't know what it's like as a dropout, and vice versa. College is the safe route. Dropping out is a risky route. If you want to actually heed the advice of someone, I rather it be from someone who was in college and then dropped out, not people who 'think' you won't get a job or it's very hard. 

As such, I won't give you advice on dropping out but I'll give you advice on who's advice to take. 
In a nutshell:  


You have **traffic**. Either it's paid or it isn't. 

You have a **landing page.** 

You have a **funnel.** This is the route you want your visitors to go down.  
It might involve a series of emails, or blog posts which ultimately lead to ...

  
...**The offer** AKA what you are selling.   


Master your traffic your landing pages your funnels and your offers and you'll be well on your way.

I have been in Digital Marketing since 2014, i guess. 


**Personal Aspects:**

For me, the best work is which we enjoy doing & if you have made this as your career then you are one of the most happiest person of the world. 



But in you case you will never have 'Work load' as you will enjoy doing that. 

**Salary:** 


* Search Engine Optimization
* Social Media Optimization
* Online Reputation Management
* Email Marketing
* Paid Marketing
* Content Marketing
* Influencer Marketing

And salary varies expertise to expertise. I would suggest here to master in all the above & keep polishing yourself. At the end of the day you will get your desired salary or more than that. 

&#x200B;

**Exposure:**

You will get more chance for exposure & you work would be more in online and/or social world & we all know that everyone is using social media & google (for search) nowadays. So you would be always able to explain them the mechanism of this online world. 

&#x200B;

Hope my answer would be helpful for you to make a great decision. 

&#x200B;

Good Future for You. Guaranteed 

It really depends which field of digital marketing - content writing/marketing, performance marketing or social media marketing and others. 


Digital Marketing job is tough, and stressful because you might be end up dealing with a number of clients on daily basis. If your agency is big, i.e. Branex, allocated resources better then you might not have much pressure. but if you're in small agency, then you might have trouble as you will be having very limited resources.
Bro, i think tye sooner the better for u... find where you are most confortable with and build your skills from there. Start by geting results for yourself and for other you can start with (even for free) Nd build your portfolio. 

PPC and SEO is in demand but i thing content creation will be crucial for the years to come. 

&#x200B;

Hope it helps

I’m open to criticism and recommendations. 

Thanks 

&#x200B;

I spend my day collaborating with international businesses and running FB ads
You can work as a freelancer as well on the side to generate passive income.
It's an amazing trade.
Currently I am trying to leverage all I have learnt and enter the growth hacking profession!!
If you are planning to take on your own entrepreneurial venture, the network you build becomes much more valuable than the degree. 
I got the free google ads certificates \[search, video, display, etc\] and then got some international projects. 


&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Is it a degree or a certificate?
I learnt almost everything I know on the job. Alot of what I learnt during my marketing course in school is good knowledge and sometimes comes in useful. 


Now four years later, I'm the head of marketing for a startup. 

I think some course like General Assembly can be good to take, or specialized 9 month degrees or whatever. But if you like it and can learn on your own well, you can learn everything you need to know. The difference is you will have to work hard and be creative to get to that next level. 
Email
Is aj.magicmedia@gmail.com 
2) marketing strategy is actually based on what your vertical is..
What is your blog about? 

20 years experience in digital marketing here, have worked with people you’ve (probably) heard of, but only work on projects that seem like they’ll be fun. 
Let me know what you're looking for, maybe we can help each other out.  Have a great day!
I'm interested. Please email me: Lemeshko21@gmail.com 

Yogesh pal - google it 


Mind to share more details ? My email: cklai626@gmail.com
Proposal + contract, email with access to systems and then pick when we talk each week.
I just throw as much info as i can in a spreadsheet and filter the most important data. I like diving in and not complicating things. Build as you go is a great idea.  
2: Competitive Advantage (What's is the strength of the company, and how it could help spearhead growth for the clients).
3: Unlimited Post Results Support (Bringing assessment and timely evaluation to the clients on how the entire process are operated to better assist them in attaining their objectives).

For me books are the best resource for deep diving. Two I highly recommend:

Creative strategy and the business of design. 
Made to stick

The first one is not directly about product marketing but it has a lot of overlap. I read it more for learning strategy but it will serve your purpose to. One of the most concise and informative books i've read.

For videos youtube Seth Godin he has some great talks on marketing in the digital age. You can also look into his blogs, books and podcasts. I haven't read "the purple cow" yet but it's on my list and by all accounts one of the best you can read on marketing.


Read anything by Russell Brunson. There are a lot of great boss resources etc but someone who understands the history of Katherine but applies it to the 21st century with actual real world ability and tools, he is the only one. 
There are two scenarios that could be happening right now:

2. They are providing you with an opportunity to demonstrate that you are capable of taking on greater responsibilities and progressing your career. 

If you are already in the position then you should be getting paid for it, none of this ‘you need to prove yourself’ bullshit. If you can take it higher without risking your job then go for it.




&#x200B;
How long have you been working in digital marketing, or is this your first gig?

“My personal income goal is to be making $100k a year in the next two years, because I want to (buy a house, start a family, build my financial stability, etc.). Would you be able to share some advice on whether you think that’s possible for me, and what you think I could be doing to create that value for the company and nail it?”

[deleted]


Look into the FB blueprint classes and learn how the pixel works. You can see how every dollar you spend brings in revenue for your company and it will make you look good.
Respectfully, I think you're conducting the wrong analysis and having the wrong discussion with your boss. Engagements basically serve to boost ego. You should be looking down the funnel to see how visitors from Facebook and other social medias interact on your website, and purchase your products. From there, you can assess a  deeper strategy on social media platforms.

&#x200B;

In my own experience, engagements outside of link clicks don't add much value to a business. That is the hypothesis you should be testing :)
1200 followers and there is engagement, now that gives you a perfect opportunity to leverage giveaways/competition. Speak to your boss and decide upon a product/book that is sought after by your audience. You can turn your followers into mini-promoters by running a competition. All you have to do is post the giveaway ad with the three golden rules: Like, Share and Tag people on that post. You will definitely see the numbers growing within no-time. 
People are guaranteed to lure into giveaways when they see they are getting something back. Also, don't forget to post the winners on the following post as this will establish trust among your followers and retain them.
Organic is a longer play, don't expect huge results right out of the gate. To determine a good goal for follower growth, you need to create a benchmark based on current performance. What is the monthly follower growth rate for your page? 


After organically posting your 6-7 times per week, you could take the top performing post each week and boost it for the next 7 days. This would help you also target the audiences that are most interested in your company/product.

Hope this helps
There are many ways you can increase your Facebook engagement, some of them are listed below:

* Facebook audience loves teaching, entertaining, informing and inspiring them on Facebook. So, make sure you make your audience smile, think and improve their lives in some ways. 
* Remember people mostly browse Facebook from mobile devices. It's been noticed that Facebook users spend just 1.7 seconds to consume one item of a content. So, keep your posts very short.
* Keep things simple with consistent color scheme and easy to identify images.
* Use your photography skills to post images on Facebook.
* Respond to your Facebook fans when they ask questions or comment on your posts.
Good catch


This is one of the areas where AI can help marketers. 






Why are you planning to work on this topic? Are you studying AI and want to create a useful project or are you a marketer and trying to solve this problem?

&#x200B;

Here are the five biggest pain point you experience while doing content marketing.

&#x200B;

**1: Not aware of your audience.** 

When you begin content marketing, it’s crucial that you create profiles of your customers. These tell you your customers’ likes and dislikes, habits and patterns, and should guide your team as they create content.

&#x200B;



&#x200B;

**3: Not getting the content in front of the right audience.** 


&#x200B;

**4: Having gaps in your content.** 


&#x200B;

**5: Measuring and adjusting.** 

[deleted]
How about a feature that can help you create or tweak your content so it can rank for a featured snippet in the search results? 
Sounds like a great idea. I have several websites that I've recently created but I just don't have enough time to write content for all of them frequently. 

Do you have any sample of content that it writes? Would love to hear more updates from your product! Or let me know if you need help with the business/marketing side.
It will notify you on the page you posted messenger if people turned in an application


What are your goals? Whan do you want to do with the knowledge? Start your own business, grow existing one or find a new job? It actually matters to answer your question

Udemy Courses are good but i personall recommend Digital Marketing Institute in which you can learn offline . I also course from Wamp Institute
Look into Facebook pixels
You can add UTM codes to your FB ads, this way you can see all the info on GA
Well, it looks very similar to GCLID and i can only think that this parameter will later be used for server to server / postback URL tracking. Given the current environment with ITP and cookies, i reckon that we're going to hear about it soon.
Your basic ROI calculations are fine and there's nothing wrong with making that yourself in excel, if you're planning.

Just be sure to take your keyword CTR, industry average BR, average conversion value and you should more or less be set to plan.

Like everyone else here is saying though, make sure you start analysing your data as soon as you can to make revisions and tweak your model.


I use Google Analytics with conversions set up, as well as UTM codes on all paid ad links so I can track the ROI. 

You can set up tracking with Facebook Ads Manager as well - I have confirmation pages after a purchase which counts as a completed transaction for conversion ads.

Calculate your ROAS (return on ad spend) for all your paid channels for sure. It gets a little murky when you're tracking organic conversions and returns since you have to include the cost of your time/salary of those working on the project to get a true ROI. But it's worth having a system in place for that so you know where to focus/increase your spend/effort. 

&#x200B;

My advice is don't be "that guy" who does a course (legit or not) and thinks they know digital marketing. There are a lot of classes and resources online which are great, but at the end of the day you need a tangible skill that gets results that the average person does not know, nor could the average person learn by simply memorizing or watching a few videos.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

I started out thinking the way you did, putting years of sales and marketing experience and knowledge to work digitally. 


Hanging around Reddit is a good start. Just reading about the technical issues others face and doing some google searching when you come across something you don't understand will work to your advantage.  Focus on the areas you think you should know and it will grow exponentially after a while. 

For grins, knowledge and a bit of self promotion, start a blog. Wordpress is fine. It's a good way to learn the tech side. 
Yes, it’s doable but it’ll make you a very attractive candidate if you understood the tech side as digital marketing can involve basic HTML/CSS knowledge (website management, email marketing, pixel implementations for google analytics or social).

Without the tech side you could still have roles involving strategizing. Depending on how an agency is formed you could be a digital strategist meaning you’re the brains behind the direction and there may be a different team for the more technical items (though not all agencies are like this and more often than not in-house roles will wear both hats.)

Or you could look into social media management which can be non-technical but I think the really attractive candidates will have a slight technical background with running campaigns + implementing the tracking pixels (though tbf if you have some computer knowledge you can pick this up IMHO). However I know many who don’t know this part and will ask for someone else’s help with this. The negative to that is that usually you won’t advance in SM roles without the further knowledge.

Since you have a PR background maybe look into SEO? It is related to writing so your PR skills will be helpful and you don’t have to understand super technical items. There are technical SEO elements but I think, like mentioned above, if you have basic understanding of how web stuff works you can pick it up. Otherwise copywriting with keyword research and optimizing copy with keywords isn’t too technical I don’t think. SEO is just a lot of “rules” and “best practices” to help your website ranking and it’s a lot of testing/playing around/monitoring analytics. 
i don't see why coding skills are required for a digital marketer , most companies should have a IT team but i guess learning those things would make it better at securing a job 

Hi,

Since you are from Communication background, you can easily take up Content marketing. If have a fair enough idea of how to create marketing valuable content.

Hope it helps

Thanks
Yes, digital marketing can be suitable for simple PR campaigns as well. Regardless of whether your product/service is tecchie or non-tecchie you can benefit from digital marketing anyways. People promote events, webinars via SMM, SMS or even PPC. 

But you will need to have some sort of technical skills if you want to succeed and bring your PR skills to a new level. How to have these skills? Make sure to have a good knowledge base which is going to be the 30%  of the job but practising it is going to be the other 70% on your way to mastering digital marketing.
Thanks for all the inputs, everyone! Lots to think about!
IF you want to test an agency, ask for previous clients reference and check their one page SEO, better yet, looks at their website thru SEOQuake and see how they are performing themselves, it's usually a red or green flag to me, there is other way but, I always start with that.

[removed]
Wordpress all the way. I haven't worked with wix at any point because it never appealed to me. Wordpress has all the plugins that you want and it is quite easy to adjust them to your needs. As fir hosting that is a different topic. Hiw heavy is your future website? Do you think that you will need a developer or are you ok just googling everything? Github is a great source of information on how to code/fix the issues
Wordpress because you have more flexibility with customizations.
I think wordpress is best for you.
In terms of SEO I also think that WordPress is the preferred option.
Wordpress with divi
You can try using Mobirise website builder.  

1. Pretty sure you can advertise non-us to US. I'd check their ad policies.

Overall, depends on the service you're offering. Snapchat is still fairly new to the marketing scene. If your unsure, maybe look into Facebook advertising, and target Instagram stories.
Sorry for the zombie revival, have tried snapchat....either we are doing it wrong or it's garbage!  I actually came here looking for advice from anyone who had had success with the platform.  

Their marketing support team gave us the following advice "Get your branding in the first 1-2 seconds and your CTA in 3-5 seconds"....implication being users are frantically trying to close/skip the ads and by the 4th second you have already lost them.

[deleted]
I like when someone’s “innovative” idea is to copy exactly what a competitor did. 


Great editor, pretty much any video style you can think of, etc..
Filmora!!
I just signed up for Biteable, having a play with it and seems pretty good for the price
Or use kinemaster app
I prefer filmora and Videoscribe(Whiteboard animation)
There's a larger community at r/digital_marketing
I wish I had more yo share. I'll try to post good ecommerce articles and videos. Would love for this sub to be more active also!
This sub's topic is about a professional skill. We are all gainfully employed. No time = no posts.
Optimization Techniques -
 http://allensnowdendigital.com/category/optimization-techniques


I suppose I'll have to be more of a participant as I know I cant be the only one in this sub in this position lol
There are plenty of entry level jobs with a more generic outline (typically "Communications Coordinator" or the like). I've interviewed quite a few people for digital marketing positions and I think what sets many people apart is the ability to read, set-up, and analyze analytical tools (like Google Analytics and/or Tag Manager). 

There are a lot of "social media managers" out there who cannot tie the metrics back to their strategy. It seems you have a bit of background on that with your own business, so definitely show that ability on the resume.

What I like to see in resumes is how the person has tied back their knowledge / tactics into a metric (e.g increased email subscribers by X% or managed $Y in advertising spend). Also, those who come prepared with a few constructive notes on the organization really helps identify your knowhow (e.g I noticed you Google Analytics is installed incorrectly or you're not using Tag Manager to fire your analytical tags).

Source: Digital Marketer for ~10 years for ad agencies and sports marketing.



Thanks
Thanks for the link! :) 
Thank you! I am definitely unsubscribing from this and subscribing to the other one! 
Really informative post! Share your business(es) here please, I'd love to have a look at what you do!
Getting potential new customers or clients to come to you rather than chasing them down is the core purpose of Inbound Marketing – but how does it really work? http://www.prodo.com/what-is-inbound-marketing/

To answer your question: your best resource is job postings for digital agencies, but it depends on the digital agency. There are full-scale service which would include web development, or industry-specific which would encompass basics. It all depends. 

What vertical (industry) are you interested in and what part of digital marketing are you curious about?

For account or sales people---   entry level digital marketing jobs will be as a support person or maybe some type of title like "associate."   These people generally handle basic support requests from clients.  

From there you can move up the food chain to program managers and account managers, then eventually to director then executive.  There are usually a few more middle tier layers than what I described here.

From the technical side---  it is more based on technical knowledge and merit.  you have basic level programmers and Project managers and team leads.  And above them you have more experienced developers, usually some sort of directors, then executives/VP/CTO.


Grayface says people end up doing what is necessary, I understand what you mean, but I'm wondering what kind of work/positions are there, meaning, what kind of work is there to be done, and assume here I don't know ANYTHING (because I don't :))


- technical jobs related to marketing - SEO, google analytics, SEM, what else?

- community management - this means handling the soc media accounts, right?

- copywriting and content writing

- graphic design




Translatepure asked what industry I'm interested in and what part of dig marketing: I'm not really interested in a particular industry, more dig marketing in general. As for what part of dig marketing, right now I'm trying to understand what parts there are :). Generally I'm most interested in the creative side, but, as I say, I want to understand the different kind of positions that exist and the different kind of work that gets done.

It is good to make a start by following some of the professionals already out there and get to know what they do and how they excel. If you need a headstart, you can read my article [here](http://www.dailymorningcoffee.com/internet-marketing-gurus-2017/) where I have tried to list the best internet marketing gurus to follow in recent times. I hope that helps you to find a direction. 
If you're looking for resources on learning the different aspects of digital marketing in general I put together a [resource guide](http://www.themissionmarketer.com/digital-marketing-resources) broken down by topic (SEO, content, analytics, CRO, etc). Hope you get some use out of it! 
When you know what type of work these agencies' carry out, you can get a brief idea on what type of jobs these agencies' will be offering. When you go through their services you will get an idea on what agencies expect when they hire you.

You can start by looking at the case studies of these agencies in your niche. There are many directory websites who provide this information and one such directory is AgencyCritic (https://agencycritic.com/).

I hope this is helpful.
From having done client services for a few years, I would say design. I get a lot of people I speak to that "just want an ad" and don't realize it takes both a copywriter and a designer to accomplish that. 
First I'd say get really good at copywriting. There's a lot of junk out there ands it's hard to find a really good writer. Next, practice different forms of marketing writing. Email, blogs, research reports, ads, product sheets, etc are all very different and require knowledge and nuance. Finally, I'd say practice complementary skills like basic SEO /  keyword research, HTML for writing web pages, and basic analytics for measuring success. This makes you more desirable as a fullstack writer, rather than a mediocre videographer or designer or coder.
Coding is indeed a great skill, but to get any traction in it takes a whole lot of one's time for a long time.

What I would do is aim for on-page, technical SEO coding proficiency, and then more and more SEO skills.

That area most closely aligns with digital marketing and copywriting.
Video may be a good path to pursue here. Video is far more effective than standard display and pubs are rushing to be able to create additional video inventory due to the higher CPMs commanded by video.

A few areas to consider are digital marketing automation and web analytics and reporting. Front end dev has become simplified with CMS systems, but to fully understand it to an employable extent you would really need to spend a substantial amount of time. Should you go the web development route, learn the fundamentals of HTML5 and CSS3 and then progress to languages such as Javascript.

I have both my Adwords Certification  and Analytics certifications. At the end of the day it's more important that you actually understand how to use them but it's a good resume booster, may have helped me land the part time job I have now.

Google is one of the most recognized and respected modern brands today. If you have the chance to connect your business with a great brand why wouldn't you?
Do the Google certifications cost money? I already use ad words and analytics regularly, but I agree that it would help as a resume builder. I remember when I looked into getting my salesforce certification as a resume builder and it was thousands of dollars! 
Some superb advice here, thanks!
A lot of what you described is a part of inbound marketing. Content promotion is a big part of inbound, because backlinks improve your organic leads. 

Also, I disagree with your classification of "evergreen content". No piece of content is evergreen in this day and age. Something written just a couple of years ago could very well be obsolete, and I'm talking about all industries here. 

I fully agree with your 30% content + 70% promotion philosophy though. 

https://plus.google.com/u/2/events/cq084mhi9b7odu3efot6ea71o30

live video in and out of our site design

Follow along today here!

Live now (we had some teething erros)
https://plus.google.com/events/ckgr4lkjmmkcpamk6kkhdun5hr0
What is your experience? This is coool

Sent 2 new pitches out
Site is almost complete
Recorded 3 videos of progress so far with another later today!

Dan
Video playlist of each days activities now in place

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDm-49srAlDFdazjSc3gtCZ3IHv100zG_
Edited for day 3 and added in video with analysis of our new site, breakdown of component parts and goals and then our traffic and monetisation strategy!

Enjoy
New content added
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dPXQ_wfTVDY
Just got a post from the new site added to inbound by one of the editors

http://inbound.org/articles/view/how-an-e-commerce-store-generated-18-750-in-sales-from-114-facebook-marketing-in-48-hours

Also just got approved for a post for a high traffic (370k per month+) site!
Got featured on a podcast that went live today as part of the success of this challenge
As a new update heres an interview I gave after the article went live https://soundcloud.com/dirtcheapstartup/crazy-facebook-results-with-daniel-hutt
I may hit this 66 day target!
Come in Dan! Keep us updated! No video update? 
I saw your 2 case studies on your site and after a while saw the video on Facebook, because I hadnt taken any action, with BLEW ME AWAY! So awesome how that works. Keep it up, you're onto a gold mine
This is pretty amazing, 

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4uP42jqKRtSub827NQkxDQ
Do the 66 days start today?
Best of luck Dan, I hope you get some valuable data from this indeed :)
What platform are you advertising on? Can you share the ads/lp?
Also can you share some examples of those bot accounts?
Spotify has 300 million playlist. Your playlist has to be lit to stand out.


Use videos with songs and use stories creatively. Be active and engage. If done right, people will check yorlur playlist out sooner than later.

Good luck
Thanks I’ll try that!
How exactly do you monetize a Spotify playlist?


Step 3 - Generate relevant content if possible. News / opinions and memes will help grow your audience
Just adding here that you should do TONS of research on the company before preparing your pitch deck. Even though it’s just an internship, companies consistently undervalue digital marketing and expect the world for pennies.



Unfortunately, I’ve seen dozens of people put together incredible pitch decks, provide amazing solutions, only to be turned down for the job. Surprise, surprise, a month later they launch a campaign veeeerry similar to the ones they proposed during the interview.

Your time, energy and education are valuable. I hope this isn’t the case, but I just had to say something! Wish you the best of luck!
I'd be happy to help. I have worked in digital marketing for almost 8 years and can try to point you in the right direction.

If it's on the ppc side, I would focus on the structure of the site and build keywords from there in broad match modified based on the services/products they provide. You really need to research the company and their products / services before doing anything else. For example, What kind of business is the company? Where is the company located? What times do we open and close? What areas are we targeting? What is the unique selling proposition of our products/services? What are things we have done that make us stand out from our competition (Awards/Reviews/Performance)? 


Phew.... That was a lot. I can talk about seo too but it would be just about as long lol.
You may be able to impress with some very simple and free things, for example get a free trial on SEM Rush - show him some reports on relevant keywords and traffic, links etc.


Competitor analysis would be another interesting thing to show them.
Just apply.

ye go knock doors and have high energy, if you're really desesperate or need a job, you can offer volunteering to gain trust.
Totally possible and sounds like you are off to a decent start with getting certifications! I'd also take HubSpot's free inbound marketing certification, which will give you more info on email, SEO, content, marketing automation, etc.


Also consider an internship or take on some part time contract marketing work to boost your resume/knowledge bank. 

Best of luck!
First learn the details of topic u want to apply for jobs. if you are planning for social media make sure you learn about specific topics like FB, FB Ads, IG, YouTube etc. So you can show your skills to employer. You can also apply for internship and then based on performance get permanent position.
You can use the Udemy's The complete digital marketing course to get started on what you could do as a digital marketer. there are other more detailed courses as well but it's a good start. good luck

With the right mindset and attitude, you too can land that digital marketing job!
Take Seth Hymes digital marketing course if you have the money. I landed a job in 2 months with that course, Seth is a genius. If you're looking for free or inexpensive course, check out Udemy and Lynda.
Start applying NOW. Don't wait until after you gain good experience because I'm telling you right now...this career doesn't require a fancy degree, or years and years of experience. Definitely try to get the Facebook Blueprint certification but other than that, most of the skills you will learn will be on the job so don't worry too much about experience.
Google Docs with folders, Trello, and calendar. That's it!
asana
Hi!

We use tools like Trello, Monday and especially Google Docs and Google Calendar!

&#x200B;


Good luck meow!

Some great tips here. I am a huge fan of Evernote because I am cutting & pasting all the time but I really need a way to put it all together. Thanks for the insights!!
Google calendar linked with all my accounts



CRM for sales and account management (hubspot for full time job, streak for side businesses)
Wunderlist 
* Outlook Calendar for time-boxed tasks.
* Confluence tasks (with deadlines) for checklist kind of things and for tasks associated with certain people/groups/teams.

If their presence is very small, I would suggest you to start with a benchmark vs competitors. What they do, where, try to estimate budgets / audiences.. charts will be naturals to build then.
Coschedule has some templates for free that are a good starting point. Just google them
Hinge Marketing has some good stuff, but most of it isn’t free. If you are just working out a plan and need a course of action and templates, look at their offerings and see if one of the classes is in budget and has the templates and guidance you need. Sometimes its worth paying for stuff like this. 

I am not affiliated with Hinge in any way, but I have used and received value for their stuff, and it is generally at an attractive price point if you sign up, do the stuff, grab the materials, and be done. 
It's possible in MailChimp, you just have to make a new list/newsletter
You’ll have to make sure they opt into your different newsletters! Or when the sign up and confirm they have to select the newsletter they want to join. 
Can you set up another list to send out the 3-4 once off emails? That way subscribers will be able to unsubscribe from the second list.

You can use a tool like Zapier to subscribe a user from your main list automatically to a new list. 
It’s possible to have subscription preferences at different “email groups” (e g newsletters, sale emails) in Eloqua. That way if they unsubscribe from newsletters, they can still receive sale emails for examples. You just segment at subscription preferences every time you send a campaign. Hope this helps. 
SEMrush for competitive research
I use SpyFu for this, I like the UI more than SEMrush
Semrush!
I'm not sure if I understood what you mean but I Ahrefs can be used to tell which keywords are targeted by which site and which ad and which landing page. 
No doubt, SEMRush is the best tool for this.
Since you already have SEMrush, check out the social media workflows that are on here: [https://campaigns.semrush.com/easy-solution](https://campaigns.semrush.com/easy-solutions/). r/SEMrush
Aaand, speaking of SEMrush - are you using our Social Media Tracker tool for your analysis? It should be a perfect match for you if you are looking for



\- Kate from SEMrush

&#x200B;
Ahrefs.
Social Media Analytics Tools:

1. Sprout-social
2. BuzzSumo
3. IconSquare
4. Google Analytics
 SEMRush is definitely one of the best tools to check the competitors. However, you can use Sprout social, social blade as well for checking analytics of your competitors. This will help to develop strategies which will help you to excel in the field of digital marketing. 
Socialbakers
Yes, there are distinct differences in the concepts.  Social monitoring is typically the act of listening to your owned channels and interacting on those.  For example, responding when someone @mentions your brand on Twitter, or seeing reactions to your brand posts.

Social Listening is much broader and, typically, leverages query logic to look across part of or all of a social channel.  For example, depending on your listening vendor, you may get access to the Twitter decahose (10% of the real-time twitter stream), or the Twitter firehose (the entire Twitter stream).  You can also run that query across multiple channels to look for conversations that, while not specifically @mentioning your brand, may be talking about it (it may be misspelled, or a topic of conversation may impact your brand).  That is listening for new conversations, but there are also tools that can look at historical channel data to look for conversation trends, and the like.


With a good social platform, you may combine listening data in a monitoring dashboard, so there could certainly be overlap, but they are distinct capabilities of a platform.

Hope it helps.


&#x200B;

Hope it helps

&#x200B;
If the booking engine is cross linked into the Google Analytics account you should be able to see the FB attribution. 

Personally I feel that if you don't have this information readily available to view/show you've done your client a disservice. 


Try using whatagraph it's cheap like 99 a month and create simple and easy to understand reports.
Datorama
\-I enjoy the creative part of the work, but setting up and monitoring/adjusting campaigns in adwords and FB, adroll, outbrain and the rest is a pain in the ass. 

\-If you reach out to a few marketing/ad agencies you shouldn't have a hard time finding somewhere to let you intern. 


\-Stress ranges from 2 (when I'm doing creative work) to 8 (when I'm troubleshooting in some asinine corner of adwords or customer service, or dealing with SEO). 

\-If you count networking and after-work drinks with coworkers, you'll probably work much more than 40 hours. Everyone I know that has any success in marketing/advertising works a lot. You're spending 20 hours doing the work, 20 learning (everything changes constantly), 10 waiting on coworkers/clients/customer service, and 10 marketing yourself/networking, etc. 

\-There are a LOT of people entering the field every day. It takes a lot to keep up with the changing industry. It's not just updating facebook a few times a week. To be successful you will have to work hard, read a lot, and have a big network. 

\-Not trying to be Debby Downer, just trying to be realistic. Have fun, learn lots, work on your hard AND soft skills. 

\-








I couldn’t see myself doing something else 
I definitely like what I do!




If you are going to pursue DM, know that you need to be willing and excited to always learn. Things change quickly, and you don't want to get behind. Also know that each company and each type of business is going to operate differently and have different goals, so my experience is potentially very different from someone else's. Oh, and get really good at Google Analytics and Excel. 
I like both the creative and analytic side of the job since it is marketing with real time data.

Take the ads management route or social media route




&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Have you tried marketing yourself digitally? There's a new digital marketing company owned by /u/JigmeYonten that might be able to help.
LinkedIn is also a good source, lol
Not to ruin your parade, but going 'fully automatic' can really piss off potential clients 
Everyone makes mistakes. Even if it were to impact your position at your current company, own it and move forward with the idea that you'll do better the next time around.

However, it sounds like you had a massive workload. Be proud of that - that is also a part of your profile, and own that as well.
I'd evaluate on the following:

2. How mission-critical was the campaign on the timeline you had (can you make up for it by running it late)?
3. Did you lie to the client or your employer?

Echoing the other comment, people make mistakes. As long as you're not unethical and you own your successes as well as your failures, your employer and client should understand that. If they don't, look for another job.
Totally depends on how the client reacts, and how important the lost campaign was. 


At least you didn’t blame it on a “platform delivery error” like most agency staff would ;)
Make sure and prove it won t happen again.
 How ? Governance !


First It will make you credible. An error is good because it improves the process (and know how of your company)
Second it will make your work scalable. It allows communication and agile work (when you ll lead a team, you ll just have to say. « Follow the plan »)
Third, this work is very valuated in pitches. When you ll talk to a prospect, show them’a glimpse of your processes, it will recomfort them (or justify a higher price)
Fourth, doing agile and processes are good for your resume (especially for big companies)



If the campaign was about to bring good revenue then it is really a big mistake. But you can run a campaign similar to the previous one and try to do your best. This will also make your client and boss happy. It's just the start of 2019 so, you have a good opportunity to start with.




You must be an expert, period. If you’re not completely confident that you know the best practices in your discipline then continue reading, learning, practicing. Your portfolio should reflect that expertise. 

Tip; when looking for other jobs, or clients; pick a company of an appropriate size, check out their LinkedIn to see what’s happening in their marketing department and do an analysis of their current strategy with cursory recommendations. You’ll stand out much more that way.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps.
The tutorial that was suggested sounds great. I'd also consider looking at the "resources" tabs for different platforms. Many of the platforms within a field will have free ebooks and tutorials on that topic.



I'm relatively new and still learning also. It can be really cool and it's awesome that you can see the direct results of your efforts, unlik with traditional marketing. Good luck!
If you wanna learn and I can let you practise on one of my sites. What kind of niche or topic are you looking at? 
You can build a website locally on your machine using software like WAMP (windows) or MAMP (mac) which lets you simulate a server without buying a hosting plan.


If you get some proficiency in all this, then you are only limited by your own design skill and copywriting ability, but you can outsource that if you need to.

Look on Udemy for some good courses on this.


Setting up a wordpress site is easy, lots of vids on youtube and all over the itnernet for that.


Maybe start with a wordpress, hosting it, and write some SEO articles, and maybe work on an email with hubspot and mailchimp.

You are kind doing the oppisite of what i did.

I am makign a website now, deciding on the doman name etc, i studied HTML, CSS etc and SEO and learning to write well. I did all this BEFORE making the website. But perhaps your approach is better, not sure. Either way, you need to pace yourself, there is a lot to learn.
I’ve done a rev share if I believe in the product and potential upside. Some tips:
- set a schedule of when you’ll get paid
- agree to everything in writing 
- you could make a lot more than you usually charge. 
You should look into LTV of clients here.  You'll only be paid for the first transaction, however you're creating return customers. 
I'd look for a lift % across the board,  SM etc can't be looked at as an independent channel which doesn't affect your channels

[deleted]

After several chats with support, make sure you reset your business manager pretty often. This should clear most bugs. If you do that, and you still get weird errors, dump the draft and recreate it in incognito mode. It should publish then.

If that does work, clear your browser cache and reset business manager again, just to make sure you're back to a clean slate.

If you're not sure how to reset your ads manager, it's the little gizmo on the top right of business manager. 
Also you can post your hashtags in the first comment rather than your picture description , to make it look more clean 
1. No groups are there on insta like on facebook which are useful. Consider insta like whatsapp in a way. Hence - create an engaging profile where users like to check out the profile due to the content. Profile should be of business type. Content is very important. Hence - creating a content strategy is very important moving forward. Give a good thought about which type of content will help you market your website. 

2. Yes - instagram like facebook keep changing it's code every 30 days. So keep yourself updated about algorithm. As of now - iirc maximum 30 hashtags can be applied. 




With a business account you can:

Get real-time metrics on how your stories and promoted posts perform throughout the day.

Get insights into your followers and how they interact with your posts and stories.


&#x200B;

2. Post and follow users

Start posting content you'd like to see in your feed using relevant hashtags and start following similar accounts.

Make your account on Instagram a business account to get insights about your stories, posts and followers.

Trusted accounts:

Likes: one like in 28 – 36 seconds (1000 at a time, with a 24 hour break);

Follows: one in 28 – 38 seconds and below 200 an hour (1000 a day, with a 24 hour break);

Follow + Like: below 2000 (1000 + 1000) a day, at the rate of once every 28 – 38 seconds;

Comments: below 12-14 an hour with a 350 - 400 seconds break.

New accounts:



I’d advise to start with the second variant and gradually increase the actions' frequency. The moment you notice Instagram treating your actions as spam, you should slow down and set the limit at that point. 

&#x200B;
2. There is a max of hashtags, and if you use too many they become redundant. Definitely use them, but be specific and weary of the ones you use to try and build traction.
3. If they're your original images, a small watermark of sorts is a good option. Especially if it's shareable content. If people use your post, repost it or what not, your watermark will be visible which will drive people to your page just because.
4. Yes. Absolutely advertise. Especially if you're in the starting stages. It will bring traffic, which turns to conversions. 

What about links to my site in the comments

FYI Instagram is one of the hardest followings to grow because their is no search engine other than hashtags. It takes a lot of engagement.
Thanks so much, that seems like a very fast frequency of likes and comments. Is that with some sort of program?

Uh yea instagram is a peer source of business please do use it.You are thinking to much about it no there are not groups like Facebook.As far as hashtags I don’t think there is. Limit but there probably could be.All I know is there is a limit of you are freinding people messaging people or poking people.Instagram followers come to you so invest in. Advertising and sending ads.
Not sure if this counts but I think what HQ Trivia did was innovative.  A live game show through an app is cool tech.  


Do you know content creation?


Learn google ads. It's simple. Start with something small and keep learning via trail and error.


Drive traffic to your website through social media and start using email marketing. Make series of different types of clothes you offer and send bulk email. Use mailchip. It's reliable and simple. When both done - use remarketing. Run such campaigns for 90 days. Results should follow.

Make a youtube channel. Collabrate with insta famous models. Video marketing will be rage in next 5 years. We have moved on to fast internet. 

Keep on the learning curve. All can be done by you. It will be over-whelming. But don't give up. In 2-3 months - you will have enough base to automate everything and chill.

Good luck.

Search on Google, bing, Gmail and YouTube 


Social on Facebook, Instagram, yelp if you've got brick and mortar.




  

Pick a few areas that are likely to be the most effective and do them well. Don't try to take on 5/6 things that will spread yourself too thinly. Once you've got your head around these areas and you perhaps have a system or have outsourced, move onto other areas.

Regarding where digital marketing is going: Data analytics and data analysis are growing massively. Understanding how programmatic ad channels work is very important. I consider content creation to be separate from what most marketers do, tbh. We’re more concerned with numbers than with the creative aspects of brand messaging but that’s an avenue worth exploring if you have the creativity and vision for it. 
Data will always be important to advertisers. The systems that collect and allow one to capitalize on the data will continue to get easier, for example, Facebook ads and Adwords. The more people they can get using their ad systems the more money they make, regardless if it's finely tuned or not. 

As we see technology evolve so will the opportunities for digital marketers evolve. Look at self-driving vehicles, are these also new ad platforms? Who will help businesses spec out, design/animate, and report on these platforms, probably a marketer or an agency full or marketers. 
Hi,

The scope of digital marketing is only going to increase in the next 10 years with everyone getting aware of the didgital world and the connectivity it provides. The reach of this medium is enormous and more and more business and the products and services provided by them are coming to the digital platform.
Digital marketing will be more technical in the future. Current trend is marketing automation than typical digital marketing which is done by marketing executives mostly. In the future enegineers will be involved into the digital marketing.
Start with some grassroots content. Break it up into chunks. Video chunks, social media chunks, etc you’ve got to be consistent and it’s going to be trial and error. 
What does your company do? Who is their target customer? B2b or B2c?


Do you have a budget? If so, google adwords or social media ads would be a good first place to start, depending on your audience. Google Adwords certificate training or Facebook Blueprint is a good place to start, plenty of other free training on youtube.

I would take the Inbound marketing course on HubSpot, or anything they have on offer is a good foundation. 

Run a giveaway with a product/service that your target market would be into. Tie it into leadpages/upviral or use KingSumo to keep things simple. BUILD YOUR EMAIL LIST!
Social media is great source of marketing now a days. it always depends upon what's your target audience. whether you are dealing with b2b or b2c.
You could start out by creating a portfolio website, add a blog to make it richer as it will help you to get discovered by client searching online. Create backlink for your website. Promote your business on a social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram. Get yourself listed on the local listing website like Craigslist, yellow pages etc. Registered yourself with google and bing places to attract local traffic.

Hi, 

You can simultaneously work on Social media accounts to increase awareness. You can start an onsite blog to increase traffic on your website and if your company has a good marketing budget, you can go for paid ads- both online and offline. 

Hope this helps,

Thanks

I have a lot of insights too offer you

&#x200B;
This contains 18 tips by the way 
Thank you for the great tips!!
UX TIPS: content need space to breathe. Start with some paragraph and headers formatting
Matt Tran isn't the one who teaches the course, its his friend Seth. Its a good course, but it won't exactly teach you marketing. It will give you the barebones, you'll need to go out and learn some other stuff yourself (read some books, watch some free courses on youtube, pick a few courses on digital marketing stuff on udemy or similar). He focusses mostly on PPC, SEO, and email marketing. The real value is in the "hack your own experience" section of the course where Seth gives you very actionable advice on finding a job. I think this the real value of the course; Seth is mostly focussed on teaching you how to get a job.

I wouldn't hesitate for a minute to recommend the course. I took the course a year ago and found a job within marketing within only a few months of finishing the course. After landing the job I actually went out of my way to write Seth a testimonial. 

Took the course and it helped me get a job. Seth does teach you digital marketing but you have to follow his advice and be autodidactical. My advice, take the course, read through the marketing information he provides, take the additional courses he recommends and follow his guidance on building your portfolio of work. Also, look up a marketing foundational book or even a local class so you have your basics firmly ironed out. Since most issues you’ll run into in digital are already addressed by older marketers. A lot of things in digital is traditional marketing concepts renamed. Good luck! 

I used to call law offices and show them how I could rank them as the highest DUI/divorce/etc in their area. Show them your current clients and tell them what you normally charge and then give them a deal. Expect to get rejected at least 50 times before even getting someone to listen to you. 
Research is important before you call. Don’t go calling without even knowing who the decision maker is. Look into their social media, news, PRs, etc that can help you into the conversation. The goal is to get to know them and how you can help before selling into them. You will get a lot of rejections but don’t be discouraged. 
Do research and have solid numbers that you will impact through association. Don't shoot something fancy. Give good numbers, look genuine, behave like a businessman. And if nothing, give them a deal for two weeks.

If you do your homework right, it will produce good numbers. 

Those references tell me a lot: you’re a data-driven marketer, your resume isn’t all fluff, you probably have skills, and I have a lot I can ask you about in an interview that should net a real conversation where we can talk shop. 
Sell yourself. It's an art. You are selling yourself tk your interviewer. If you want to make big in life as a marketer , it starts from selling yourself.

Good luck
If you need help selling yourself you probably shouldn’t be in charge of a digital marketing campaign...




Feel free to hit me up on DM if you'd like me to review your resume. I've seen hundreds of resumes and hired plenty of digital marketers, so know what stands out. 
Pivot tables and vlookups are exactly what you should be looking at in addition to general excel syntax. So basics like calculating a formula off of another and being able to read an existing formula to see what it is attached to. 

If you are still in school, see if you have access to Lynda.com for tutorials. Also, there are a lot of digital marketing excel blogs and tutorials out there. It’s extremely helpful to find a website or tutorial based on marketing because the examples will make more sense than accounting and you’ll understand the applicability quicker. 

What have you used excel for previously?
1. Make an example table with like 50 rows and columns for the following: date. Device type. Impressions. Clicks. Conversions. Source channel. Placement Id. Creative asset. Test (yes/no). Test version. 


The most difficult stuff you might encounter based on something like this is an a/b test with a lift analysis. But I don't think you have enough time to master that before this test you have. Focus on funnel analytics, it's generalized and easy. Which creative asset had the highest ctr. Which device type had beat conversation rate. Stuff like that.
My guess that the test will be about Pivot Tables and VLOOKUP. Be also familiar with some other formulas such as: if, countif, sumif.

Other things that might come up are: calculating CTR, ROI, etc based on the data provided. 
It's like that on most other marketing subreddits (in my experience anyway). I've a few theories on why this is. Most prominent of which is that the majority of group members are consumers rather than contributors. We scour the Web for great ideas to implement in our day jobs rather than to share knowledge and best practice. Another reason, one more personal to me, is that I typically visit reddit for pleasure rather than business. So I'd visit sports or gaming or film and TV and only come across marketing if it shows up in the feed. I'd never visit it directly. 
>I joined this sub to get tips, helpful hints, and to maybe collaborate with other marketers

[deleted]
That’s for sure a very good start. Also you can take some udacity courses or coursera ;)
Honestly what you have down is a pretty good start. However, you’re going to have to pit to use the knowledge you’ll gain from those courses and guides. What is the career you’re looking for anyway? Do you want to be a freelance digital marketer or in-house/agency marketer? 
Indemandcareer.com is a crash course in digital marketing. He also provides a ton of extra material and also even helps build your own website+ resume. It's what I did and I'm freelancing and also working as an assistant for an agency remotely.
[deleted]
https://seodumb.com/20-proven-seo-tips-2018/
Consider mentioning that you're good in rush situations. I worked for PerfectlyPosh.com and something was always going wrong where they needed help NOW and someone who could put together information, graphics, etc. in a quick and dirty and PROFESSIONAL manner. So maybe mention that you're good in a pinch.
Hi,



Cheers 
Best GA courses are provided by Google called Google Analytics Academy. Link here: https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/ you can also get certified in GA once you complete the certification exam. 

I dont know of any good SEO online courses. However, i can recommend a few good beginner SEO guides:

- https://moz.com/beginners-guide-to-seo 
- https://blog.kissmetrics.com/seo-guide/ 
- http://searchengineland.com/guide/seo 

I hope this this helps, happy reading and learning :)


SEO is composed of clean, fast code, good information architecture and clear, valuable and easy to understand content.

There, I just saved you a few grand.

If your client has an SEO/organic search focus they shouldn't be using Wix.

Would highly recommend Wordpress over Wix if he is dependent upon organic search results to generate leads.
I would never use Wix if Wordpress is an option.

Hope that answers your question.
First, I would check out Neil Patel's blog.  Always great source which will give you a solid foundation before taking online classes.
It really depends on the niche and also on how targeted the traffic is, what stage of the buying-cycle they are etc.

If they came from social, for example, you might be best offering some freebies like an enticing how-to guide etc, to grow a mailing list. 

With a decent offer you should be able to get a good % to opt-in, then create a drip-feed email campaign that adds value for them, but mix-in some offers etc (only allow offers/promos in emails when you're sure you have built trust though!).

That way you get your visitors into a mailing list and can build trust up with them, should work better than trying to convert them from cold ;)

However, if they've landed on your site from, say, Adwords or Google organic, after searching for high buyer-intent keywords, then you MAY be able to aim for a monetary conversion. Even then though, try to build a list & entice them back for repeat custom ;)

Also, consider adding FB & Google remarketing tags, so you set cookies. Then you can set rules so that anyone who visits, but doesn't visit the thank-you page (for your freebie or post checkout if a sale conversion) can get retargeted to pull them back via FB or Google display network adverts.

Just my thoughts, but depends on the niche, source of target, and more, really :)
You would need to be more specific about your site.

For a broad question like this...You could get something between 1 and 10 usd per 1000 visitors via Google Adsense.
E-mail lead capture. Then market affiliate products to your list.
Grant Cardone
Neil Patel
John Rampton
Chris Stoikos 
Ann Handley
Branden Hampton
Brian D Evans
Nathan Allen Pirtle
Mari Smith
Leonard Kim
Deep Patel
Pat Flynn
Amy Vernon
Jason Stone
Jon Youshaei
Chirag Kulkarni
Kimra Luna
Nicolas Cole
Dave Kirpan
John Hall
Pam Moore
Corner Blakley
Josh Stimlie 
Angie Schottmiller

Aeron Aurendroff
I'm a big fan of Jason Swenk. He gives actionable advice based on his years of growing digital agencies. If you're looking for more of an inspirational marketing guru, check out Gary Vaynerchuk. 🤘✨
Neil Patel (data-driven generalist), Gary Vaynerchuk (social media), Rand Fishkin (SEO).
can anyone share complete list with me pleasee?
Well, I think this is a power pack [list of Influencers](http://www.arpatech.com/blog/new-year-2017-top-marketing-influencers/) to follow in 2017. The best bit...there's a video of every influencer in it. Cheers. 
I'd add in Michael Brenner. Very sharp.
Hi people, with couple of friends I'm developing tool for **overall online appearance scoring** with identifying most important spots. Also with lots of engagement options for most important posts, comments, blogs, news etc. We are in very early stage, and we will appreciate any feedback from you. 

Thanks a lot, Gavrilo! 
[aper-inc.com](https://aper-inc.com/)
Drew Neissen and everyone he interviews. 
Thank you
Nyc
Nice thank you
Sounds Cool
Great video, loved the instagram example. The decision to make all the payed instagramers to post it on the same day is brilliant. I'd probaly think it's just too obvius that way but thanks for broadening my perspective
Robolike for Instagram.
Yeah, I'm in a similar position to you - I'd be lost without Moz, especially as they've just introduced some keyword research functionality, and seem to be constantly developing new stuff.

But there are free tools, or free versions of paid tools, that you can get away with using for smaller sites. You don't need the paid Screaming Frog, for example.

The one thing you might need is more time - and a lot more manual use of spreadsheets. The main benefit of paid tools is time saving and automation.
I've heard of MOZ but don't know a whole lot about it. Maybe you could share a little bit about how this has helped you for content marketing?
We use SiteCatalyst for analytics on web traffic and making projections to clients regarding their digital ad campaigns. 
MOZ Bar & Meltwater Engage/Fairhair

http://www.meltwater.com/za/blog/a-guide-to-social-media-monitoring-tools-in-2016/
Using images to Call to action buttons can also be another way of trying it differently or adds a bit of humour to otherwise serious content. 
Marketing automation tools like HubSpot provides for Customized CTA features in their product which actually boosts testing the CTAs. 



Anecdotally perhaps as people want to *feel* like they are researching more/ trusting a brand more when visiting a website instead of just tapping and entering an email direct on Facebook.  


Also for B2B the quality of emails captured was lower as often if autofilled it was personal emails.

&#x200B;



In terms of examples, literally the next one you see from a marketing agency/agency owner/ business guru, actually stop and process their copy and video and hook of their offer, fill out the details and see what happens post-click in terms of their marketing to you.  




You will learn a lot by trail and errors.

Good luck
You may want to consider your audience as a whole.  Granted, Facebook has some of the best reach, it does not perform well in all markets.  Facebook tends to do much much better on a b2c then b2b as a side note. Business consumers tend to research and compare a lot more; With that said certain b2b services do very well.  I would investigate the audiences tab and search specific interests of your b2b potential prospects and make sure there is enough interest on the platform for it.  

&#x200B;

If you are having trouble converting leads, another route is foregoing direct page ads, building a community around the interests, creating a page likes campaign, then inviting those likes to join your community.  Then run promotions within the group.  You simply just need to build the community following first.  With the new changes to Facebook recently, this is probably one of the best routes to go at the moment.

&#x200B;

Or you can select a platform specifically for b2b like linkedin.  hope this helps you with your future marketing company.  

&#x200B;

If you promote great content to the right audience, sure.
Yes, it can.

Not only you can earn links by promoting your blog post, but also detect broken links on other relevant websites and offer them a link on your website they can replace it to; offer your expert opinion on a subject matter of someone’s blog posts and they can link back to you, and many other tactics.

The only important thing is that you need to do it the right way, be relevant and don’t spam.
If you have high quality content and you are reaching out to people who have high authority blogs. Then yeah its possible.

Its all about the approach. You need to offer them something that improves the value of their blog post.
they will most likely ask to see examples of content. Make sure the content you show them is 100%, relevant to the publication and not promotional.
ex-journalist here:

Only thing you need is curiosity.  


1. be fascinated not only for words but also for design: take some Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign courses, read some graphic design books to get better eye for beautiful things. 
2. be curious why printed newspapers and magazines live, thrive and get above the water (so advertising, look at it, look at copy and look at design)
3. be interested how printed magazines sold themselves on social media -(so social media, design, mass mailing because you get a lot of mailing campaign mails), through online campaigns, through mail campaigns... And what if I tell you, you can automate that mailing campain - if I register and visit few times, I may get mail to complete offer for subscription... And here we go to the world of online.


1. be curious for design - look at some blogs (google it) how good web design looks like. 
3. be curious how they work - make your own blog (or work in some media), just start some quick easy wordpress blog, how to publish something, how to promote it on social media, how to make mass mailing for subscribers, how to use services to do that... then you definitely get interested in web development. 
4. be interested in web dev - you neeed to know what is HTML, CSS, JS and some content management system (for example wordpress). So do some cheap good rated courses on Udemy. Some of the Web Development... It is about 12 dollars on Udemy or Free on YouTube with some time spent on searching. You need learn how to code web because you want to have nice mass mails. After that maybe some PHP and databases because you have your own blog, yeah? You dont need to be mega coder but imagine you work for e-shop (or you have one).
6. You have some own website... that is good for presenting yourself. Now start to learn thinking. Problem solving is necessary technique to master. Javascript could help. You will also encounter in your digital marketing world... Impression pixels (often gave by advertising agency along with banner to websites) are javascript codes. 

&#x200B;


You need tools to create, to measure and to solve problems (this should be your brain). Learn them. 

Curiosity produce thinking and critical thinking.

&#x200B;

Maybe, you as psychology degree, can start a blog about mental well-being and mental health and burnout and all that shit and apply all above to that. Make it your project. And after that, present it to your future employer - here, I did it all by myself, lots of digital marketing had to be done.
Digital marketing is like an ocean. You need to chose what niche you will be picking up.

Since you like writing, I would suggest content writing as this will come naturally to you. 

Also, blog post, product description, email marketing, headlines for adwords etc. These all stem our from having a good command over how to play the game with user's mind. 

Good luck! 

Ps- It takes a while to develop a niche. It took me 3 years. So, don't be faZed. To earn by the time you become world class in a particular niche, you might be needing to learn basics of other form of digital marketing.
Hi!

A translator here. Digital Marketing really has A TON of paths: data analysis, content marketing, SEO, SEM, E-mail marketing, Automation, Social Media... The good thing about that is that it's really easy to jump between career paths (even if you studied journalism and want to specialize in data), so you should get the basics on everything, know which path do you like the most and then apply for an internship or start working towards that goal.

I started with Google's Digital Marketing Course, then jumped straight to Ads and Analytics (these two are CRUCIAL). Then I created a wordpress webpage just to mess around and experiment with stuff. Read blogs, study some articles, watch videos and learn, learn, learn. When you feel you are ready, try to jump straight into an internship, and you will be on your path to really become a digital marketer.

Content Marketing is something that you might like doing, you can even look into social media management as well. To take it further, you can learn website management and be in charge of a website. I think the creative part of social digital marketing is saturated and very competitive. The money is in tech, analytics, and product marketing. Location also plays a factor.
Hello,

Digital marketing is a small term with deep sense. It is a bunch of activities where you need to choose either one or many of them according to your skills and interest. There is a lot of work likes blogging,  SEO activities, Affiliate marketing, Email marketing, website designing using wordpress like applications, and so on. But I personally suggest you to choose either **Blogging** or Affiliate marketing. Blogging is the term we all are familiar with but I put some light on **Affiliate marketing** \- a process of earning commission by promoting other people's product on your own blog or website.  It all depends on your own interest of work, so choose any one of them and start your new destiny.
Start your own website. It's really inexpensive to make a simple blog-style site. You can set up and add Google Analytics and search console for free. Social media accounts are all free, so you can create those to drive traffic to your site. Basically, you create a digital publication and learn about driving traffic and analyzing traffic in a way that is 100% hands-on and not expensive. If you want to put small investments into Google Ads, then that's another way to drive traffic and learn about ad creation.
Udemy has some great classes! Lots of free guides/Youtube tutorials out there.
There are a bunch of classes for paid advertising. Maybe you can score some discount codes or free trials?
You can take free or paid course from udemy. Or you can create simple blog site and can promote it through SEO and PPC. There are lot of PPC tutorial available on YouTube. You can find lot of information about PPC through Google search. There are lot of site that provide information about SEO and PPC like searchengineland.
Any history of results to compare to?
What’s the objective - traffic, conversions, reach?
Brand guidelines
Who are their target customers?

Just a few thoughts.


Something to think about. What is it you want from these potential fans/community?

Do you want more people to listen to your music?

Do you want more people to enjoy your music?

Do you want them to buy your music?

Do you want your music to used more?

Build a quality blog/site  create a  separate Facebook page and join groups that share your interests, create a YouTube channel and add daily content which you should already have. In my view post a video every day for at least 3 weeks. So 21 videos.  Add all the other social network platforms. Get familiar with what your other people in your market are  doing and  copy there strategies (not their work) in your style. Spend a few weeks on each platform one at a time, that will get you more confident and you will soon see by testing what works and what doesn't. 

Making genuine connections is easy, probably the easiest way would be to be active in groups or forums in your field. and then all you have to do is be genuine. Worst mistake in my opinion would be to try and be someone you are not that just attracts the wrong audience... Focus should be on branding yourself as you are the product.

Hope that helps
You might read some books on networking. A lot of them were written before digital marketing became a thing but the concepts are the same, if the execution is a bit different. 

What is your goal? You want fans, why? What is your final product that you are selling? 

First thing is to build social media pages for your work. This could just be your personal account or you have separate "artist" accounts. Post quality content and post it often. For example, if you have a gig somewhere and need to fill seats you can run local Facebook Ads with an offer maybe from the place you're playing at. If you are at a bar headline could be: 
GREAT MUSIC GREAT DRINKS
(Not the best thing but an example)
The idea of the offer is to make it pretty big so people actually want it. That's all in the people that own the event space.
I would find someone on youtube who made it big but had  to start from nothing - there is lots of them. Study their journey then use it as a guideline. I can sit here and write a 3000 word essay from a technical point of view why this is good advance but I cant do that. chances are youre not the first one or last one to do this so learn from those who have done it and honestly- copy them until youre comfortable branching off and developing youre own technique. I would research youtube heavily and make a spreadsheet of your findings. I could give more technical answer but its not gonna help you.

&#x200B;

Good source on modeling business/youtube channel: Tim Ferris
I’d go to the IT or CS route then get an MBA for the business skills.
Most of the digital marketing stuff isn’t taught at university anyways, you need to learn in the job or from online courses/certifications
Keep your major and learn / read as much as you can about digital marketing. 

Here's my advice (I literally did this) - create a website and learn SEO, Social Media and Email. Create a website about something you're interested in and write content (or pay someone), get relevant graphics (learn or pay someone) and get the site to rank.

When you graduate - show your project to employers. It will be enough to land you a job. I've been working on side hustles since College and was able to land a pretty sweet gig in NYC right after graduation. FYI, I also majored in Comp Sci and had an internship as a front-end developer.
No, you don’t have to switch your major. 


I’m not sure about your situation, but for me, I’m a Chinese and studied in the US, and then went back to China. My first company hired me simply bc I’m good at English, and play a lot of games. (I’m working in the mobile game industry) 




The good ones, and there are several options give you all the tools and training you need. Not overly expensive. The market is wide open with every local business crying out   for help. 

They have no idea how to sort out hosting, build a site sort out ssl certificates and everything else. Most of them are not advertising correctly, not targeting there visitors not building subscriber lists. The list goes on...
I can share with you some thoughts.


What she lacks or at least 
need improving is layering/segmenting customers targeting with regards to both behavioral psychology and lacks of product knowledge. For your case, a good throughout read on some core marketing books and applications should helps imagining the bigger picture when there is so much more than just data. But in the end, data expertise will be the cross point for business scaling and implementing automation. Just my 2cents, I wish I mayored in CS.




Look into all the different types of coding jobs because they make way more than digital marketers without being a manger. If you really think digital marketing is interesting develop that on the side.
 Yes
Look into A/B testing. I minored in CS and majored in a humanities/social psychology thing.



Check out **RankdSEO.com** **backlink database**. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of high-authority websites.

Selfgrowth.com
There are lot of sites that have high DA and provide dofollow backlinks. I advice you just search it on Google and you will find lot of site matching your preferred criteria.
I would investigate reputable agencies near you, do some solid research. Then either find the decision makers and add / flick them a message on linkedin, call them or just show up to their office!
There should be jobs out there which don’t require experience to start entry level.
Call around town and see if any agencies near you would take on an intern. There tend not to be a ton of internships in this industry but they are out there and most will pay you at least a small stipend. 
If you have experience, that is more easy to find an agency. It's  need to recruit people with some skills with mathematics, Excel, technology, customer service, and more. I recommend you that practice it from now. Use your own campaigns.
Go to upwork, you might get some paid gigs
I was just looking at a Marketing Manager job in LA lol. If you are looking for a hot job at a tech company I would say go for it. I’m in the Bay Area myself 
I work remotely for a company based in LA. I think that’s been the best of both worlds for me
In the paid course you can actually setup the ads campaigns if your own. 
Oh fuck yes - can't speak for the google side, but Facebook Blueprint basically gives you an understanding of how their ads work, it doesn't actually teach you how to run good ads that will create ROI.  



&#x200B;
Depends on the agency. In some agencies, a marketing co-ordinator is little more than an admin assistant that schedules tasks and ensures follow ups. In other agencies you may be expected to be very hands on with the work. It will depend on what kind of team you're working with. 

I think most importantly you have agency experience - that's the distinction that sets you apart from an office admin. You would have some understanding of the agency workflow and how to go about looking after campaigns, how the creative and content generation process works, etc. 

If I was employing a marketing co-ordinator, I would just want someone who seems organised, is prepared to learn and can juggle tasks, and also won't just sit there waiting for something to do but will chase clients up and keep things moving. Also someone who presents well and seems like they could hold their own in front of clients. 


In short, pay attention to the job specs and stress your ability to manage workloads and display excellent personal presentation, client-facing skills and working with a team. A marketing co-ordinator type role is a good entry-level role for someone who wants to go into digital and wear a number of different hats. 

I started from a super technical area of digital marketing which is PPC and SEO - and later on i added more design and web development. Pretend that tomorrow you have your own business and you need to get started - what would llearn first? I would look into Web Dev on wordpress - templates - CSS HTMl - then get Certified by Google in Search and Analytics. Then go to [MOZ.com](https://MOZ.com) and read the entire PDF on SEO.  After that I would get into sales funnels and email marketing. The last thing I would do is social media marketing and content marketing. But all digital marketing is is creating costumer journeys so you can get their email and build an emailing list so you can monetize it.
You could consider keeping with the content side and getting in via enterprise content management as well. Look at something like Adobe Experience Manager and focus on helping to drive individualized content in the customer journey...

Just a thought on how to leverage you existing experience.
I think Graphic Design is a part of Digital Marketing. Without the assets (ad images, landing pages, web design), Digital Marketing will not yield results.
You can use your "creative" aspect to market yourself in Digital Marketing. Show them examples of your work and the results the business achieved.
Want a job? Lol!
Where can we see your portfolio?
ManageWP, MainWP or infiniteWP, they are all freemium apps that can do the job

&#x200B;
You're looking for an "Uptime Monitor".

There are lots of services with free plans (with 10 min or 5 min intervals) and restrictions on number of pages. A quick google of that phrase will bring up services you can evaluate.
Statuscake should work well
We use ManageWP and we like it a lot!
Thanks all, I see you all recommending ManageWP. I am going with it. 
Not counting recreational activities (checking personal social media, watching TV, etc?  Around 5-9 hours a day. 


Then I go home and watch sports / movies / play games. 


Plenty of time to watch porn!
At a startup launching a new platform so about 50-60?
more than 15hours  daily

Read a book for 1 hour.

Watch Gary vee videos for 30mins 

and whatever is left.....Sleeping. :)

So an average of 10 hours a day roughly.
50


If you would like to attribute conversions (music sales) on iTunes, Amazon, and Google the ads would to be ran through their systems. I’m not sure if each platform has the option to run ads driving album sales as I personally have not executed a campaign like this. 

As you mentioned users typically won’t buy and download a zip file from your webpage, but they may click links on your site driving to the music marketplaces. This may not be the best route as users would need to be served an ad. The user could click your ad called post-click (PC) brining them to your page or return to your site after viewing an ad called post-view (PV). They then would click the marketplace link on your site. Your measurement could be link clicks from your page driven by advertising to the marketplace. The biggest downsides are that you are asking users to complete several actions before a conversion, generally its best to remove extra steps to convert. In addition you won’t be able to understand how many people paid for the music after clicking the marketplace link. 

You could look at increases of music sales over time when you start advertising. Many factors could be involved in sales increases and decreases over time and won’t be as a result of only advertising. 

You shouldn't ever be doing work in someone else's business manager; they can take your work and kick you out.
I feel you!   
What clients need to understand that they approached someone in the first place is because they had a problem, now if they are not ready to break few rules and take calculated risks, then what's the purpose? They need to give some space and CREATIVE FREEDOM  to the people they hired. Only then you can make the most out of what you are investing in.   
Well it depends on the site and what CMS you use. If you are building a Wix site, yeah that's unreasonable. If it's a Wordpress site, that's on par for a smaller site. Some people can knock out a site in under 20 hours. 
That's actually quite a deal depending on what you're doing.
It depends on the work and what you charge your time out at. 


We sit at around £2000+ per website but do a mix of bespoke and theme based work depending on the budget. 


It’s strange for the monthly to be that high when the build is so low. 
No need to learn copywriting. I usually test a few options, see what works best and spin off variations of the top performing ad. There's tons of articles about what works well, but it will really depend what you are selling. Include a sale/offer if you have one, or try asking a question in your headline. You can also try responsive ads, which Google will automatically optimize for you. Lots of options, you just gotta go for it and start testing. 
In a sense - no. But there is a difference between writing for google ads and writing for your customer to buy, so it's a good skill to have. Ideally you'd have a dedicated copywriter for the purpose of marketing, but if you have to do it all, yes it helps.
No need to learn copywriting, Just make sure you create all the variations, exp: spin off the H1, H2, and H3 and create some new ads.nobody knows which one works better, Just make the campaign run. after a while, google stats shows you which one performs better than the others.


Do some keywords research and use the popular phrases in your ads. this could help you increase your ad relevancy and consequently your quality score will raise and your ad rank will improve.

Add some extension to your ads, Callout, and Sitelink would be perfect.

Always watch out the  Auction Insight, do know about your competitors.

No needs, it's depending

What you might need to learn is to create many ad copies in a limited amount of time.

Nowadays, with the new google responsive ads, you can insert multiple headlines and descriptions. 

If you really want to dive deeper, then you should consider learning behavioral science and how it was used by marketing people. For some reason it still works.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
just read through google entire help section. learn the beast. Writing the ads is the easy part. Dealing with adwords system is the pain in the ass. After you learn it though it is so easy. picking the right keywords is critical . Forget writing the ads that basically means nothing. The entire rest of adwords you need to learn or your doomed. 
Try UpWork and read about how to make your pitch sing. Don't think that pricing yourself cheaper is the smartest way to do it. People are willing to pay lots more for quality. 
ProTip: Find who the requestor is, connect on LinkedIn, and call their company via the phone. 

Has helped me land tons of engagements. 
LinkedIn ProFinder
I want to mention in case you forget, make sure your current agency doesn’t view it as a conflict of interest. You don’t want to ruin a great thing for some side money.

If you guys have an HR department maybe you can talk to them, but going to your boss/manager before speaking to HR is probably a better approach.
The big ones I've used are Shopify, Woocommerce and Magento. Shopify would be the easiest one to set up however you have to pay $29/month for the most basic package. Woocommerce is good if you're familiar with WordPress while Magento takes a bit more technical knowledge to get running but is perhaps the most customisable of the 3. Heard good things about Prestashop but can't comment on it's functionality

**BigCommerce**


* Standard –- $29.95/month 
* Plus –- $79.95/month 
* Pro –-Starting at $249.95/month

**Volusion**


* Mini – $15 per month 
* Plus – $35 per month 
* Pro – $75 per month 
* Premium – $135 per month

**Magento**

Magento is one of the best eCommerce CMS in web development industry. Magento is highly-scalable and provides full control over developing the store with splendid add-ons and extensions. 

* Magento Pricing – Free Community Edition

**OpenCart**


* OpenCart Pricing – Free

**WooCommerce**

WooCommerce is very popular WordPress plugin for developing an eCommerce store/website on the WordPress platform. The plugin is easy to install and boasts almost all the features one can expect from an open-source CMS. 

* WooCommerce Pricing – Free

&#x200B;
Are you asking for a CMS or an ecommerce platform? They're not the same thing, despite the functions overlapping sometimes.


If you're looking for an ecommerce platform, then WordPress with Woocommerce is the best bang for your buck.

Like many people have said, it depends. When I am helping a brand add e-commerce to their channels here are some of the things we use to determine the best technology fit:

How many products will you have?

How many options/variations can a product have?

How are you going to organize your store?

How many categories are you going to have?


How many purchases do you expect in a week?




&#x200B;


&#x200B;
Shopify is good and easy.

WordPress is probably the best value CMS for clients that can’t afford expensive licensing.

As for Instagram, a lot of their followers may be bots, intentional or not. Content is held to a higher standard on Instagram, as companies have to compete with people who share high-value content without the baggage of a sales agenda. 

**How to create engaging content?**  
A good start is by scoping out winning strategies by the leaders in both your industry and the platform itself, and adopting those ideas. You can't tell people what to like, you have to create content they WANT to see. Your goal is to guide people to develop an interest and affinity to your brand, and then those people will convert to paying customers. 

I'm interested in this too, I wish I knew the answer! 

No software does everything and even if you found one, it would be a jack and jill of all trades. Meaning it does not do any one thing very well. You can easily use [Supermetrics](https://affiliate.supermetrics.com/1026.html) or Google Data Studio for reporting. Then [Unbounce](https://unbounce.grsm.io/DuaneBrown) for building your landing pages.
I think you might want to check Hubspot.
I use a mix. However I say I rely 50%-80% on UGC on Instagram and post that photo across channels. You’ll also get a follower out of it too typically. 
It depends on the client and your services I suppose. I mostly work with clients that have great pictures already that they can share with me. You can definitely have client send you a box of a few products they want your services for though. 
What's your customers niche? Need to know this to best help you
Have clients give you access to their photos by zip or dropbox link
There are many alternative solution for your digital marketing campaigns. Currently I using SEMRush and found it better than other SEO Marketing Software. 

1. Ahrefs 
2. HubSpot 
3. SimilarWeb 
4. Moz Pro 
5. SpyFu 

I’m running with the Ahrefs trial right now. I like their approach to keyword research with comparing long tails with Parent keywords and how likely you are to rank for your long tail if you target your parent kw. I also like Ahrefs banklink estimator. It’s nice for noobs. 
Ahrefs is great as well I think you can get a week or two of free trial for Ahrefs as well as SEM rush.
Dynamic creatives (DCO)
Private marketplaces
App reengagement
What kind of display? $2-5CPM for low quality. Up to $13 for retargeting. Pre roll is higher.

CTV and ATV can hit $45-55 CPM

If you're handy with Linux and scripting, checkout InstaPy.
Definitely don’t do it. Follower count doesn’t even matter anymore, what matters is your engagement rate. Buying followers is a waste of money and will completely skew the metrics that matter. Just make sure you are using a proper hashtag strategy and post great quality content and the followers will come.
Hootsuit is also good for posting and managing multiple accounts. 



Good luck - love my black toothpaste...
Your question is: pull  or push marketing?
Start with Google ads for search terms really lower funnel, find out what converts and do some expanding and testing. Then branch out with some remarketing, Facebook and Display once you have some traffic from search ads. 

Optimise your website during this 'low hanging fruit' phase also, make sure its easy for people to convert.

Then figure out what you can about your customers and expand to find similar audiences with Facebook and Google display ads.


Google Display Ads, YouTube Marketing would be sufficient to start with. 

The question is, what are your conversion points \[website, GMB, etc)?  
both
You may have a tough time with advertising low-cost products on either of those platforms.   

&#x200B;


  
That's right-work on your own SUCCESSFUL projects and turn them into case studies to get clients via LInkedin outreach

  
People are looking for VERIFIABLE results
[deleted]
PPC and Social Media Marketing, but taking few courses won't be enough. You must start following industry related websites (to stay up to date) + read many books related to social psychology and copywriting (to understand how to influence and convince people to buy your product/service.

&#x200B;

\- Paid Search (Google, Bing...)

\- Social Media Advertising (Facebook, Instagram)

I started in email marketing straight out of college. 
Following
Not keyword planner that’s for sure
KW finder is the best one
Ubersuggest
Can try ubersuggest. 
You should use a few. I like Keyword Finder, Keyword IO, LSI Keywords, IDGAF Keyword Planner is still important but Keyword Finder is the best imo
Semrush
Ubersuggest Suggest is Best and Simple Keyword Planner Tool.
There are many tools available online for keyword research but some of the best ones are as below:

**Google Keyword Planner:** 

Though designed for advertising, this tool is the best to find organic keywords for your website. Keyword Planner allows you to:

* Find a new keyword and ad group ideas.
* Obtain search volume for a list of keywords or group them into ad groups.
* Obtain traffic forecasts for a list of keywords.

**KW Finder:**

It is a long tail keyword research tool that offers a great interface. It gives you the information on trend, search volume, CPC and difficulty level. You can also get information on local keyword search wherein you can target the search results by city, state or country.

**Keyword Tool:**

Keyword tool creates a database of long-tail keyword suggestions. It is free for first 750+ keyword suggestions. If you want to see the data such as search volume, CPC on AdWords, and competition then you will need to sign-up for the pro version. It also helps you to export your results to CSV.

 
  

Ahrefs, SEMrush, Market Samurai
Pretty niche area and I’d imagine anyone involved would want to keep their advantage - including myself. 


Some movement is starting to happen. 2019 will definitely see a lift on this block, based on how it’s marketed, for Facebook at least. 

This is a broad question and there are a lot of rules around it. People who work in the industry are generally specialists and there are conferences dedicated to the subject. All this to say I don't have any advice to give and it can be difficult to come across.
Tpd.... [`]

I’ve done some work for a cannabis testing facility/lab. It was...interesting.


Break it into 2 parts then sub parts scoping in. 

a)Audience size
b)Demographic
c)Geo location 
d)Engagement 
d2) top 10 posts with the most engagement
e)Where they like your page from (where they found your page)

Part 2. Where we want to be
a)Demographics and audiences that will benefit the company 
b)How we get those people with an excitable plan 


Throw some pie charts & bar graphs (pivot tables if you’re feeling fancy) in there and a small paragraph for each section detailing why it’s important and how it affects the companies bottom line. 
Running ads linked to your facebook page or instagram profile is a good start. You can def get results for a couple bucks a day with decent content and you can practice building audiences, tracking CTR, CPC, CPM. Also, you can see how different placements are priced and convert. I saw you can ad a FB pixel to etsy stores too so go buy some antique junk and try to sell it haha so you can track ROAS. 
SEMrush is pretty great for keyword analysis. I'd start with the following: think who your customers are and find popular keywords (especially long-tail) that they use to search for your product. Then, write articles using those keywords (especially in headers). Avoid being too promotional and SEO-like and make the article actually useful for the reader, but of course don't forget to mention your product and include links to it. Put those articles on your website. This will help you build your rank in google.
Use Ubersuggest and LSI keywords tools to analyze the keywords for your content and use Yoast SEO as a plugin for WordPress, this plugin will be very helpful for everything. 

 
The only way to get the page to rank higher is to put content on it via a blog, get backlinks, and/or share your site to directories that fits your niche.  There are lots of things offsite that needs to be done so you can start ranking.
I'd say spend 10k on your own project(s) and see if you can create something that drives revenue. It looks a lot better on a resume than a certificate. 
Copywriting. Start with that first. 

Digital Advertising will be the next step. 

Have fun! 
Seth Hymes
School of hard knocks - use the 10K for a few MVPs.
I would actually disagree with many on this post... I'd go for the course.


It also depends on what you want. Do you want to do this freelance / agency style and be your own boss? Then  take Dan Henry's FB Ads course or Sam Oven's Accelerator

&#x200B;


&#x200B;


&#x200B;

I don't plan on this route (corporate/start up) forever but i'm in it because I also get access to a lot of super smart A-Players and get an inside scoop... 



**So to sum up:**  
-If you're more entrepreneurial and are willing to really hustle, take a course (Dan Henry's FB ads or Sam Oven's accelerator)


&#x200B;

Honestly, even if you are entrepreneurial, i'd say take the 2nd and use it to leverage it for the skills and clients that you can land soon after 

&#x200B;
None.
If I had 10k to use on courses - altMBA from Seth Godin($3.8K) and Cult of Copy’s one-year mentorship ($6K). 
Look into a training course involving the Facebook pixel. There are a few. Dan Henry comes to mind.


CIM
Google & FB Ads

Since everyone is sharing SEM/Social Ads (which is of course a great option), here's something different: depending on your company/niche/etc, you can offer up free, informative content in exchange for contact information. Build an email or call list to begin targeting for potential sales. Quantity might not be as high, but quality of the leads should be great.
Google ads, Bing ads, linkedIn, Facebook, Instagram

Then you've got advanced programmatic for retargeting, sequential messaging, cross device as well as platforms like native, connected TV, connected audio.

If you're pin pointing your targeting you should be able to use most strategies but customized for leads. 
You can go for performance marketing  also - Like CPL campaigns. There are ad networks which run these kind of campaigns. 
Google Adwords and Facebook.
All apart use Smart Display campaigns where you need to pay only for the leads you get, not for the impressions and clicks. But to run this you need at least 100 conversions on your adwords account.

- Makes Facebook more personal and is meant to increase user positive sentiment 

- Makes businesses pay for engagement by boosting posts.


Keep in mind that sometimes it's just the industry. Big brands do ok, as do shareable brands (pet, food, retail related etc) and local businesses. Sometimes if you're industry is a bit more niche, then Facebook might not be the best place for your company.


Organic posts get throttled to 2-5% of your followers so reach is constrained.


Sponsored ads are the best way to start running tests. That's what the big boys do.

If you've got any kind of ecom or direct revenue goals you should definitely be looking at that. 
As far my experience, the lowest organic reach should be at least 8 (0.0008%)
Definitely fake.




After that the pixel and retargeting can really help you get your conversions based on the first step. 
Have you set facebook pixel on your website?
Do you retargetting the customers? And abandonment cart handling?


Finally, if you have email addresses, you should upload into audience manager and then make a 1% and 2% lookalike off of them. 
Hi,

That indeed would be awesome 
You mean a reporting service like raventools? Cause I'm pretty sure they have Twitter and MailChimp tracking. I'm sure there's better options too, that's just what I use.
can you please message me to describe what you're looking for in more detail, I'm looking for a side project. 
That means they've done all of Google Ads certifications. I would suggest adding all of them to your LinkedIn.

So: definitely add your certifications to your resume and linkedin profile.
Similarweb
Uuh u don't write a marketer at all. I didn't understand half of what you said.


For initiating campaigns, you can create an account on  Mailchimp. Mailchimp is a marketing automation platform and an email marketing service. Mailchimp you can start mail campaigns to potential users also send them newsletters. 
Use a tool like SEMRush.com. Start plugging in your competitors and pull the keywords that they rank for. Pull the main keywords that you already target on your website and drop all of those keywords into a spreadsheet. De-dupe all of the keywords. Take the main keywords and drop them into the keyword magic tool by SEMRush and grab the missing keywords. Pull all of the long tail around those. De-dupe the keywords again. Now you’re ready to get started. 

Break out your keywords by what type of content will work for them. Is it an article or a pillar page, etc. Also, see if you can break out your keywords by trends (SEMRush does monthly trends, although it’s not completely accurate) that can help you create content around different times of the year. 
Google Keyword Planner is free and would be a good starting point. Agree with the SEMRush recommendation as well. 
There are simpler tools but I prefer Adobe After Effects. There are plugins and templates you can use for easier production. There's also Adobe Premiere for simple edits if you want fewer motion graphics.
Rocketium. Hands down
It entire series of tools very helpful 

Viddictive video templates are great too
Vendesta. Ontraport. Infusionsoft. Hstchbuch. Greenrope. 
If you are using Wordpress,  there are many plugin that integrate with landing page plugin, CRM and email marketing. But it may takes more than one plugin to do all the jobs.


Some wordpress theme also has built in drag and drop page builder. You can use those or u can use a regular theme with landing page or visual page editor plugin

Thrive architect is a plugin I used to create a page from scratch or use one of their templates. You may like or not like it depends on your learning curve. But it is very helpful. 


As for email marketing, you can setup MailChimp and jotform and integrate with Wordpress. 

For CRM, you can try to use Zapier and Mailchimp with Googlesheet which will collect customers and lead data in row of spreadsheets 

Or you may use saleforce or zoho. 

More importantly is to setup your Google Analytics Goals, Facebook Pixel, Google Tag Manager, etc to track and collect future data
Squarespace might be your best bet, but you might need a service like Unbounce, Instapage, or Google Optimize to really dig into the landing pages.
I suggest Wishpond. It have all you need, plus a great integration with all you may need via Zapier or directly.
You can use it to do marketing automation by itself or by MailChimp.

My 2 cents


Ask the client what there typical customers are. That seems like a broad range for a night club. Usually it's like 21-30 or 35-45, but I could be wrong.

Go to julian\[dot\]com blog. He got a section about growth hacking and there are great tips on FB ads. Must read!
In terms of additional interest targeting, you should do some research in fb insights to see where else that broad target hangs out. Make a few ad sets in the campaign to test the different cross interest groupings.
Did you target location...?
[removed]
[removed]
You will probably want to start by asking yourself if you want to specialize in one aspect of digital, because there are a lot, or if you want to take a high level approach. 

One thing I think every digital marketer should have a firm grasp on (regardless of the path you choose) is analytics. Being able to make data-driven decisions and understanding how those decisions have made an impact is extremely important. A good start is getting Google Analytics certified. 

Bufferblog
Facebook blueprint
Google adwords( course by google)

Start with these...these are basics in digital marketing

Honestly, I still consider myself new to the field.


5 years into this. Started by linking articles to a facebook page for a one person start-up. Would reply to queries and monitor engagement , learning as I went along. 
Pirated Udemy courses, took Google, Hubspot and University of Illinois course on Coursera. 
I still do. It is an ever-changing landscape and I still continue to learn. But the best education has come from the experience of actually handling accounts. 







Started with an SEO internship now I’m more of a generalist with SEO, web design, social, some email, etc.
[deleted]
Very interesting article. It's cool to see an example of a digital marketer using classical and theoretical concepts to inform their work. Often it seems to just be about techniques and tools dominating the conversation rather than underpinning philosophy. I wonder whether we'll see more of this deconstructionist approach to marketing as millennials get more senior positions in marketing. Although to be honest I grew up with the internet and so did many of my peers, and for much of the time it's still the same old. Perhaps when more of the audience expects satire or subversion then we will see more of it.

Going to join now
I've been a part of a couple web development groups and they've been an amazing resource. 

If you can manage this well I think more of these groups are necessary ! Will join 
Great stuff!
Hi,

Very interesting post. No body has though of the role of "search intent." I guess AI algorithms built into search engines will take care of that. Obviously, search will be more powerful in 2018. I also see possibility of searching based on image data and video data and not solely on textual keyword.

Regards


You probably want a transactional email service then. Mailchimp is best for newsletters. Mailchimp recently made all their automation free so transactional like emails can be sent for free. That being said, transactional isn't their bread and butter. Sendgrid, sendinblue, mailgun & mailjet specialize in transactional email
We allow creating fully personalized templates (but of course you can use our easy to use drag and drop or HTML template editor if you want) and then, send them to your contacts list.
Feel free to visit our [website](https://elasticemail.com/) to know more about our email marketing services and if you will have some questions or concerns, feel free to contact us!
Gmail. Use canned response lab feature. Include HTML email template as canned response. 

https://business.tutsplus.com/tutorials/how-to-create-email-templates-in-gmail-with-canned-responses--cms-28076
Hehe, well, you are marketing services to provide marketing to companies...  So, you better be good at marketing said marketing services.

In all seriousness, just think of it this way and start planning accordingly... You are providing a team of marketing experts to organizations that do not currently have the knowledge to effectively grow their business and customer base by attracting new customers in the digital space.  Your team comes in and solves a problem for them by effectively helping them to tell their story through digital, without them having to learn the nuances of doing so.

I will tell you this.  For traditional B2B customers, this is usually a harder sell.  For customers with a lot of products (like semiconductor outfits), you could talk about using digital to educate existing customer on new products while also providing solid content through channels to help grow awareness (like blog posts discussing new product offerings).  

At the end of the day, selling digital marketing is like selling anything else.  Identify how the service can impact a customer, build an ROI around it, then profit.  Don't get bogged down, look at what your target market is doing, find the people that are performing already, then go to those that are struggling and offer to get them into the same arena as the successful ones...

Well, the best practice would be to link building, but if you want leads then I recommend you Google Adsense and Facebook advertisement. But not only depends on Facebook, you can get your leads from Twitter and Linkedin too.

If you'd like an idea of how to create an effective presentation, I'd highly recommend listening to "The 3 Rooms" podcast by Bowery Capital (http://www.bowerycap.com/blog/marketing/three-rooms/ ) This may seem like it's just for subscription based companies, but I've applied this mantra to my sales pitch for years and have had great success with it.  
Sign up to smart insights, the online resource by Dave Chaffey. There's a free and paid version. I'd go paid if pos.


If you are totally new to marketing then my suggestion would be to get a handle on marketing basics: audience, messaging etc. as this all applies online too :)

Hi Mark, there are millions of resources and you will end up cluttering your inbox. Here's something you can give a spin http://www.dgitalerts.com. All relevant Digital Marketing news,tips & tools are curated and summarised using an AI trained engine. Currently in beta. 
The internet, especially social platforms are valuing video very highly these days. If you are on Facebook, Twitter, and IG, I recommend creating video content that you can post on those social channels. Then reach out to people that you feel might be interested in your content by searching #Hashtags like #GymLife, #HealthyEating, #Motivation, etc. then like, comment, and engage with those users.
Hi Mark - I have a few clients in the same industry, so I'm fairly knowledgeable in the niche. If you want, feel free to PM me, and I'll take a look for you!

Create a stunt that will attract social media influencers, bloggers, media and news to your website. The louder and more ridiculous the better, a great example is how Google hides easter eggs in their search engine, i.e. search on Google for "do a barrel roll". I also remember when they offered a pac man game on Google maps. 

The best traffic is always free, master your SEO and analytics. Find the words that bring in the most relevant traffic to your website, and that of your competition. Make sure you insert it in your content normally and make sure Pictures, Page titles, Meta tags, description all have these mastered keywords. If you are looking for a tool to assess your competitor's keywords ping me. Try and write content around these keywords, we give our bloggers cheat sheets for keywords to include. Look for micro niches in content on the Adwords tool planner.


Create relevant social media content. Easier said then done but master this and enjoy the best organic growth possible. Use videos, pictures, and posts. Remember a picture says 1000 words, a video has 1000 photos. Try and be as relevant as possible using timely posts. It hard to see what's the next big thing, and to beat the kerb on it. Here's a good tip. Cover the basics, holidays, news years, back to school, Christmas, etc., and free up your time for new and trendy things. 

Develop a growth hack; there are tonnes of strategies you can employ to hack growth. For example, a referral program is free, and a reward is handed after the action goal is met. PayPall and DropBox have mastered this and enjoyed systemic growth using a pull strategy. Referral is one hack, and there are a tonne of them. It depends on what kind of business your promoting, referrals are ideal for SaaS businesses. 



Newswire and HARO are free news, sites and it doesn't hurt to put your latest news there, you can potentially land relevant traffic. Product hunt and Beta list as well if your SaaS these are awesome. 

Put your product/service on Craigslist and other free classified sites. 

Start a podcast and invite industry influencers to be hosted on this podcast. You will leverage their social reach to create awareness about your company.  

Develop an evangelist program that rewards the best of your users/readers to ensure you socially and publically to attract more people. 

If you're an e-commerce site find an affiliate program that works. 







Use social media aggressively - engage fully with potential customers that engage with you.  Ensure posts use popular hashtags to gain a little more traction.

If you have an email list, start sending out daily letters to your subscribers.

For your website, do the best you can do to ensure it is optimized well for search (keywords, etc...)


I think that 7 days (which is today) is a very short period



If you want to win at marketing, Paid is the way to go until that tell your friend to try the strategies below.

1. **find other local businesses and ask them to position something in their store in exchange you do something cool as well (referrals back and forth).**
2. **Find social media influencers and offer something of value in exchange for a shout out.**
4. Start using social to show that the company is active and engaging (even thoug it's just a start up)
6. **Do a Facebook giveaway. Cost $100 ish.**
6a. give something away SUPER valuable crazy huge! (example: restaurant 6 months free lunch)
6b. Create the post
set it up as an ad in Facebook's power editor and start the ad for just 5$-$25 a day.
6c. Get [Leadpages](https://www.leadpages.net) trial and set up a simple landing page and a thank you page.
6d. get [ActiveCampaign](https://www.activecampaign.com) trial to have an email list you can collect email addresses' names and phone numbers in. 
6e. pick a winner - give away free stuff - interview the winner - up-sell the winner - create a press release for local media. BOOM.
6f. Send promo email to the rest with a special offer.
6g. continue to build goodwill by providing people with relevant value on the email list and social media.

the benefits of the give away are a big list of potential customers/clients you can market to times infinity for a reasonable cost, brand boost, engagement boost, everything boost.

Write a blog which is heavily relevant to your site/ company. 


Ensure your site's meta tags, description etc is all keyworded correctly.

Additionally you could look at other channels:






Content marketing is nomrally my number one recommendation, but it will take too long until you see results (6-9 months at least). Without budget, paid ads are neither an option of course. So, depending on your product you can either try to get some nice press wih your launch - or you count on agressive direct sales. 
SEO has had a very tough time the last couple years. Google work hard to stop people gaming their system and try to promote websites based on their quality and merit.



A good place to start building an understanding might be from google itself. They offer a pretty good introduction to increase your insight of how the system works: https://digitalgarage.withgoogle.com/

I'd immensely recommend that you check out NeilPatel.com. He is the most transparent expert in SEO that I've heard. The previous commenter mentioned most folks create fake sites, etc., but that's not truly the case. PageRank, although complex and ever-changing with updates, was built off the premise of high value sites linking to your site, thus old school black hat was manipulating .gov and .edu websites. That said, producing great content and getting your content and/or links on relevant sites is most helpful (media, bloggers, etc). Google "Who is Neil Patel?" 

Let’s accept the fact - SEO is not easy. You need to:

1) Invest lot of time in getting your hand dirty
2) SEO industry is very dynamic and fast pace. You need to keep yourself updated. And, for that you need to read, read, and read.

Now, coming to how to build up a skill set for SEO, here are my 2-cents:

1) Learn and focus on On-Page SEO . Here is a great post by Brian Dean- http://backlinko.com/on-page-seo


3) Once you finish that, you need to focus on:

a) Creating Quality Content.

Always go for quality over quantity. Don’t afraid to put data. People love to read long posts backed by data and facts. Here is a great post (http://www.serped.com/agency-blog-post-ideas-topics/1941) by my friends Colin on how to come up with new content Ideas for you blog.

4) Now that you are done with on Page SEO and started building content, time to focus on off-page SEO. Here are few tips by Neil Patel- http://neilpatel.com/2016/01/19/everything-you-need-to-know-about-off-page-seo/

5) Other things you need to focus on:

 - Comprehensive Keyword Research
 - Your Site Management
 - Regular Tracking of your Keyword ranking to measure your efforts.


Hope it helps :)

There's actually quite a lot of them, just to mention Jay Baer, Neil Patel, Sujan Patel off top of my head. You might want to google some articles listing the experts/influencers. Here's a Twitter list I found some time ago you might find helpful too https://twitter.com/PostPlanner/lists/content-marketers/members
Moz blog! 
Rand from Moz + GrowthHackers.com is a great place to check daily.
If you're into digital marketing crisis management, I've been writing a series here: http://www.crowdbabble.com/blog/category/social-media-crisis-management-2/

http://blog.dmioa.com/15-influential-digital-marketing-educators-you-should-follow/
The article below by Inc gives you the top 5 free places on-line.

http://www.inc.com/larry-kim/top-5-free-online-courses-for-digital-marketers.html

I'd take a look at Google squared which is meant to be good.

In terms of resources, the smartinsights website is unbeatable imo.
Marketing Land
I like AdAge's daily digital email.  Digital Doughnut's working hard to be an important news source.  And App Annie has tons of data that they produce articles and blog reports on.
Digiday and eMarketer have some good stuff too. 


About 30 different website automated to slack whenever they post something new.  
Search engine journal has some good stuff occasionally. Moz is also a respectable source of information or you can sign up for "Think With Google" and get some insights right from the source
re/code as well
I can appreciate the time that went into putting this together.  



Im surprised you didnt talk about what is important for clients to look out for in 2016 to help grow their business.    What about the importance of data mining and putting the collective data together  to build a strategy that will effectively and efficiently push customers through the  funnel.   

What about Virtual reality and the role it will play in the retail environment? Virgin America was testing virtual reality on flights recently?  Seems like virtual reality could be a new avenue for retail and e-commerce, which Lets face it is in desperate need of a makeover. 

 Native ads or lets just call them what they are "sponsored content or advertorials" was something bloggers were in hot water over and now it seems the wave of the future..

PPC has been around since the dawn of the internet.  Remember Overture? 



All in all,This is a great think piece that agencies should use to dissect what strategy their clients will actually need for media planning.  




This is a great list, pretty much agree with everything, lol.
This is great, and very helpful. Thank you for your work and time on this!

Great article. Thank you!
Great list, thank you! The only thing that I would like to add to the list of digital marketing trends for 2016 is A/B/N testing, because no matter how much quality traffic sources you have if the page converts it badly your precious traffic will leave a page before ‘thank you page’… Therefore, if you are not engaged to a construction of sales funnel and identifying weak places in it yet, it's the exact time to start! To do this, there are many services, among which there are more popular ones, e.g. Optimyzely.com, VWO.com and less popular, cheaper services like Maximizely.com with almost the same functionality. Such services provide all-in-one benefits to improve websites and sales funnels like different useful analytics tools, visual editor easy to use even for beginners in web design and so on and so forth. Try this in 2016! :)   

I am sure you can achieve similar results using a bunch of other services (Intercom.io, Vero email etc) but you might have to work a bit harder.
You can try feedly by just adding the blogs or websites you want to follow and it will collate all the content in a feed for you.
I use Google Alerts, and IFTTT recipes for Twitter and Reddit keyword search which curates into daily email digests.
go for feedly
Important news always pops up in either my Facebook or Twitter feed. Especially on Twitter I make sure to have a well curated list of accounts I follow.
Get results for people and build a portfolio, and then you should have clients lining up to work with you. The issue you face is everyone and their mother thinks they can launch a PPC/Facebook ads service on the site after doing a bull shit training, and then faking it till they make it. 

&#x200B;

I have 15 clients and they get offers from people all the time who do Facebook Ads/PPC and 99.9% of them are all full of shit, so my advice is since you have some experience already it sounds like, build a portfolio or way to convey that level of practionership to prospects.
Your experience is your connection. Local businesses should be easy to approach, and freelancer sites like Fiverr and UpWork will build up your 





Cheers!
Be honest about what you can offer. Most clients skeptical of people who promise instant or phenomenal results - just be candid.

I get the: "How would you improve this or that aspect of our Digital Marketing efforts?" In every interview I have. I recommend you to thoroughly go over every single aspect of their DM and think of at least 1 or 2 things that could make a real difference (in terms of profits but also in terms of ). Hope it helps and good luck!
Due to the fact that the position you're applying " is quite creative," I would recommend preparing something which can show your vision and how you can contribute to the company. As far as I understood your job is more about storytelling and building the campaign for the company which will help them not only to build a bright presence on social media but will make them unique. So don't be afraid to be who you are. 



So, if you want to stand out or to show you're really interested in the position: maybe prepare something to show how it can work if you will do it. It can be one post, or brief structure and prepositions what should be changed or improved. Just show this creative vision that you have. And don't be afraid of it! Good luck! ;)
The whole challenge of Digital Marketing is to make people talk of your brand.  Yeah online presence and reach are technical terms.  But the real goal is to make people talk about your brand in person.  
How you integrate traditional marketing with digital marketing really gives you an edge in an interview! 

Worked for me!

I’ve been working on a campaign for a specialist brand agency, again not expected to convert from search but looking to be part of more potential client considerations. Hope that helps.
Agree with above. You have to figure out what the client goal/expectation is of their site. Then exceed those expectations. 

On the upside you get to call in and interact with Google customer service, truly the shining star among those who know their product well and go the extra mile to solve your problem /s
If there is a bot running the accounts, it might store usernames it is following in a database, and then draw on that database of usernames for other accounts. So, bot account A discovers you because of some hashtag or some follower of yours, stores you in a database. When bot account B, C, and D run but don't find anyone to follow, they fall back on the data stashed by account A and follow you that way.
A lot of those rats(spam bots) work on the same principle - they "attack" famous or popular accounts. If you follow the same accounts with all of your accounts - there is a good reason they will reach you. Also, there is a possibility of making the connection via friends, family accounts that you follow or if they follow you back on your accounts.

Spam like how? Like fake comments and likes? Only way to avoid that is set your account to private but you limit your growth that way.
Spam bots tend to target the followers of popular accounts. Example if both your account follow <insert popular instagram account here> it goes through the followers of that account and spams them.


We have a free SEO course at seo101.com/course
Facebook blueprint if you're looking to run media at all; I think it costs around $300. You can also start taking webinars: emarketer, Adweek and Adage all have good ones.
Try iDeators technologies in Mumbai for Digital marketing courses.
As long as people opt in and have a way to opt out it should be legal.

Not sure if there are any softwares but there may be some automation tools.
You can now run ads with WhatsApp as the CTA inside Facebook.  Other than that, they must opt-in before your client can contact them.

I am using it with some clients in Spain with very good results, as a substitute for the typical chats. It is true, that here whatsapp is widely used as a form of communication

Hope that helps.

Shashank
What year is it?

I would be a little bit wary of this approach and might even try to walk them through why a % of ad spend or even a flat monthly fee would be a better model.

Example: if you get paid $0.10 per click and drive 100,000 clicks, but none of them convert, you still get $10,000 and now the company doesn't have any leads (bad for them). Alternatively, if you get paid $10 per lead, and you are only able to drive 20 leads that month, your gross earnings are only $200 (bad for you).

I would walk them through a hybrid approach where you set a monthly or quarterly goal: set your monthly fee slightly below normal and then say "if I can surpass LY's clicks (or leads, whichever is the actual metric they mean), I will get an additional $X per click/lead."

This approach would lower the risk on your end, but give them confidence that you are still motivated to try and perform.


What happens when you spend $100k on your billing account and they only get them 4 leads?

Sounds like you're putting yourself on the hook for the entire budget if they don't like the results. 
Really not my area of knowledge but an interesting idea. How would you define "lead"? I like the transparency but feel like the client would see you as "click machine". 
Wow. If they want to pay you per click, jump on that. That's the dumbest method of measuring value. 

Set your metric to convert whether it be clicks, landing page views.



There is an element here about your relationship with the client, and your goals with them. 

Are you really looking to partner, and share risk and reward results? 


Are you looking to fleece them for every penny you can for however long (or short) they are a customer?

  

&#x200B;

As for measuring the value of a click or lead, you can use the 'reverse demand waterfall' technique to tell you how many clicks and leads they need, and how much they are worth. When you look at how much they cost, you can see immediately what is a good or bad use of those funds!
Is this for the paid test?
Yes, you can do so. 
Try to land some freelance jobs on websites like upwork or other freelance platforms. You could also make posts in Facebook groups targetting Amazon/Ebay Sellers. If you have a certain size as an Amazon seller, you soon wanna expand your ads to google and other search engines. Hope I could give you  some inputs. :-)
Hadn't realised SocialBlade had those Insta insights thanks!
You have no idea how much I appreciate you for even thinking about doing this post! I just landed my first big gig & this post was exactly what I needed! Thank you!
Hubspot, Google AdWords, Google Analytics and Facebook Blueprint have free online classes. Hubspot has a particularly good one on Email Marketing. You can also train online to be Marketo or Salesforce certified, which is somewhat operational but in demand. If you’re more technically inclined, look into job descriptions for data analysts and start building yourself a learning plan. There are so many options!

I agree w the earlier comment to follow what interests you. Start there. Then once you’re in an entry level position, you can see the other digital jobs and get a better sense of which path or channel you want to pursue. 
If you've browsed this subreddit, you'll undoubtedly found the 1M+ threads on getting started. Not being rude, just want you to understand what you're really doing in digital marketing: 

&#x200B;

Create content (make a blog, youtube channel, etc.) and start teaching yourself how to market it (social media, SEO, etc) using free educational resources online. Stay dedicated and consistent, marketing usually doesn't pay off immediately, it takes time. And/or get an entry level job in marketing.


1. SEO
2. SMM
3. Email Marketing
4. Content Marketing  


it is up to you where do you want to see yourself and whats your objective.  


Hope this helps

I am in digital marketing but I don't care about each of these things. Find out which topic is interesting to you before you buy a book.

Also, if you have the time and are interested in writing you could start a blog. The great thing about a blog is that it touches many of the digital marketing topics. 
HubSpot and Google AdWords & Analytics. Start there, they have free certifications too. Also, read and listen to Neil Patel, you'll learn a lot and where the industry is going. 

Digital marketing covers a lot of areas, find what interests you the most and focus on those areas. 
Very first step is 

1. Create your website. 
2. Write some blog post
3. Try to rank them with good content. 

You just need to find someone who needs your service and is willing to pay.
First, get experience


But the quality of second point comes with first.

There are many to choose from. 


Don’t over complicate or overthink this stuff. 
[removed]
Reddit as a source is a great place to find amazing stories, experiences and opinions from real people. If I’m a car company making an electric car, I wanna understand the consumer POV in detail on the ups and downs of a Tesla. I could look at Twitter, but that is short form, maybe too quippy, I could look at Facebook but really I can’t because they shut off their API, and their data that you can use is pretty shit, but if I look at the users on r/Tesla I can start understanding better because reddit is anonymous (or as anonymous as any given user wants it to be) and people will open up. You can start building your campaign, your product, your ad, your copy, etc around how these people actually discuss their passions and what they would have liked to see (grievances with functions of their Tesla for example)

If you can find ways to start understanding well X user is posting in r/Tesla and is also posting in Y subreddit, you can start gaining understanding of interest affinities. 





[article](https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.cnbc.com/amp/2019/02/11/reddit-users-are-the-least-valuable-of-any-social-network.html) 
Not sure if it is applicable but the google store, where you buy merch & gadgets allows free access to their analytics. Years of ecommerce data at your disposal.
First go on domain & hosting website and buy website & hosting to test marketing strategy.

Here are some points you might want to check / optimize that maybe can helps

1. Your email size
3. Image (embedded or linked)
4. Your text is also important, some words are detected by mail software or antivirus and are classified as junk/spam.

&#x200B;


Hope this helps.
I understand your frustration. Sadly, many of us have been on that boat where emails don't end up in the right folder.


Do I have your permission?
This is perhaps the biggest reason why emails are spammed. 
Did your recipients subscribe to your email?
Please ensure you send emails to subscribers.
The CAN SPAM law is pretty strict.

Fishy IP Address:
You know how they say, a bad record on your license can take a long time to go away?

Low Open Rates:
Check your email metrics, and see the trend of your Open Rates. A consistently low open rates can kind of “suggest” the email providers to move to spam.

Low Mailbox Usage:
Check the ratio of active to inactive email accounts on your list.

Misleading Subject Lines:

Missing Physical Address:
Don’t breach the CAN-SPAM Act.
Ensure you add your physical address to the email.


Words Dear to Spam folder:

Steer clear of words such as amazing, dear friend, free, promise you, risk free, this is not spam, for only $, guaranteed or order now.

These words can lead your emails to the Spam folder.


Now, coming back to your question about tools to send “bulk” emails.



You can look for Bigg Mass Mailer, which is a free tool for generating mass mailings. 


Shashank

Hey I don't know how your mails are going to spam but mailchimp is supposed to be one of the best out there when it come to email marketing. Try sending it out in Batches. If that does not work contact their support team.
So can you check the deliverability and spam rating on your company's domain? I wonder if your company email domain is on a bunch of blacklists. Problem is that if your company uses one single domain to send thousands of emails, overtime as they start bouncing, being marked spam, or being suppressed it hurts your deliverability. I would suggest that once you check out those metrics, and to possibly get a subdomain just for your team to use?
Others already provided great tips. But there is another one why your email might land in the spam folder.

If your email domain name start with something like support@ or info@ then email providers like Gmail will send them into spam.

You can try something like hello@ or {first\_name}@.
Is your sending IP good? You might have been blacklisted for some reason or another. Make sure you're sending from a good email address too.
Make sure: 

You have a domain email address/paid email address

You aren’t using gmail yahoo etc.

You don’t have a bunch of links on cold emails

Text emails convert higher because they don’t go to promotions tabs 

You have a physical address at the bottom of your email

They are subscribed to your email list
Your email's subject line is one of the crucial reason to make your email a spam. That's why you have to focus on your email subject. Don't make it too promotional for your users. Apart from the subject line, you should focus on your email body, try to make your email body personalized as per your users.
Hey there - the reputation that's associated with your sending IP is going to determine whether it lands in spam or not. My recommendation would be to implement a new mailer system (SendInBlue is good), and get on an incremental send volume strategy. My company does this sort of stuff. Feel free to PM me if you'd like to speak.
Yo.. welcome to the frustrating world of email marketing :o

First.. Your domain is blacklisted, not your IP.  If you're using mailchimp I assure you the IPs in their sending pool are clean w/ good rep. What to do? Either take the time and effort to get off the blacklist or just grab a new domain and start mailing again.

Second.. Stop using mailchimp. I'm assuming you're trying to do affiliate marketing. While you may get by for a while, eventually they will shut your account down. They do NOT like affiliate marketers on their ESP and even say so in their terms.


Take care of these 3 things and then you can worry about inboxing.
I got one just as a resume boost, and it didn't help at all. But you certainly do gain some valuable understanding of online performance and measurement
It’s a great way to let future employers know that you’re an expert at google analytics. Studying for it is also a great way to get your skills to the next level. However, if you have no experience with GA yet, I would hold off on attempting the certificate. It gets technical and can be difficult if you aren’t well versed in the program. 
resume
It's FREE(!!) and inherently validates a skill you have without the need for you to elaborate. 

"I'm a certified financial advisor" sounds a lot better than "I've handled people's money before" wouldn't you agree?
Making an ad takes a minute.  


A successful ad a bit longer...  


Keyword research and selection: 3-6 hours  


Creating Relevant ad groups: 30 minutes  


Say you have 10 keywords grouped in to 5 Ad groups.  


You then might prepare variations of ads for testing. For example if you want to test the first part of the headline:  


\-Ad 1: Headline1 A / Headline2 B / copy1 A / copy2 B  


\-Ad 2: Headline1 B / Headline2 B / copy1 A / copy2B  


If you prepare all of this for 5 ad groups, it involves writing 5 ads + 5 extra headline variations.  



Then for each ad group, you'd run the two ads on 50/50 rotation, until you have some sort of statistical significance.   


You'd remove the loser and test something else (Headline 2 or body copy 1 or 2 for instance).  





  


  


Now if you're talking about writing the Google ad alone and getting it up, I'd say a few minutes if your copy is already ready. Getting that ad through approval and having it receive impressions can take anywhere from an hour to 24 hours depending on the account.

&#x200B;

~~Hope it helps~~

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Thank you :)
It depends on a lot of things. How big your budget is, what are you targeting, how many ad groups and keywords, ad variations, etc. 

If it's simple or updating an old campaign, doesn't take long if you have some experience. 

Most small to medium campaigns (in terms of complexity) can be built out in under 4 hours if you're experienced and know your way around the tools. There are lots of variables, though. 

But for literally one ad? Less than 5 minutes if you need to think about the ad copy.

Edit: Typo
The account build is the base of your Adwords success. An ad takes literally 2 minutes but if he's looking at the build/structure too then it makes sens. Plus, would this be his only project?
You will be playing with powerful analytical date and its uses, spend some time doing research before you actually spend money.
Creating an ad is easy & it will hardly take 1 hour if you are starting from scratch, rest depends on the type of business, its products & services and there are other factors which will affect the making of ad.

&#x200B;
this depends on what specifically your asking. Your colleague is probably referring to the account build which does take some time if you do your proper research and keyword/ad group builds. Getting everything prepared is the longest part. Once everything is built out uploading is not long at all. then you have the process of ad reviews once everything is turned on, which can take up to 24hrs for everything to start running. "everything looks more simple on youtube". 
The absolute bare-bones of marketing are kind of a spectrum, you've got four kinds of marketing actions in any given campaign:

There's branding, where your objective is gaining notoriety and spreading an idea, affinity (how likely is X person to become a client) doesn't matter as much, you want to speak loud and wide, like a grenade.

Then there's traffic, you want people to be at the very least curious about you, you want to grab their attention. You don't care about selling just yet, but you want to be noticed.

After that comes sales/leads, you're looking for interested people to fullfil your survey, get an enquiry or straight up sell to them.

Finally there's an ROI strategy, you've put a lot of money into your campaigns and you want it back, you're looking for the people that you're certain will buy and love you, and you want to keep them close.

Strategies come and go, techniques and channels migrate, but if you keep this 4 kinds of action in mind, you'll know what you want and when you want it, that's the first and most important step to marketing.
Learn principles of marketing, advertising, and sales.
“How to win friends and influence people”  and “scientific advertising” are books I would start with. See if you can’t use some of you elective hours to take a Marketing Intro class or Buyer Psychology at your university.

Go to YouTube and search for videos by:

Don’t pay attention to CTR 
Hey, Digital Marketing is huge so it depends on what exactly you want to learn. You can start with generic DM courses and then find what interests you the most: Content Marketing, SEO, SMM, etc. After that my recommendation is to become an expert in one of those instead of learning a bit about everything.  
I personally learned Digital Marketing with various online courses on Udemy, and now I teach it in the University. PM me if you need some books.
Build a site. Try and rank it.

Pro tip: easier said that done.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Giveaways / paid shoutout / actually interacting with consistent people
What type of business do you have?

1. How often are you posting?
2. Are you using relevant hashtags?
3. Are you engaging with your audience?
go to pages similar to yours, there you can find ppl interested in your content. follow them, like their contents and let them know you exist, they will surely come to your page to see who you are and if your content attracts them, they will follow you.


you should always consider your posts, hashtags and so many other things.


&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Udemy.com is great - not free, but solid courses are often $10-$20. I just took one on digital marketing that I found crazy helpful. I’d say be willing to pay for a quality education resource. 

Congrats on the job! 
If you’re trying to be a jack-of-all-trades, I’d say learn Google Ads or email marketing next. 

If you’re trying to focus on just one and become an expert, I’d say Google Ads would be a solid focus that’s still very high in demand and slightly more intimidating to people than Facebook/insta marketing. 
Correctly creating detailed targeting campaigns on Facebook/IG will do WONDERS for you. Message me if you have questions. 8+ years in DM.
Messaged you! 
Can I know about Google analytic Certification thanks in advance !
I am more than happy to chat. Ask anything you'd like!
Would be happy to help however I can. I'm a marketing manager with 4+ years of digital experience, shoot me a message if you'd like to chat!
Feel free to shoot me an PM! Been in the industry for 8+ years. Have started/sold numerous different companies and currently work as the lead for a large digital marketing team in Houston. 
start following brian dean or neil patel 
It will count as coming from the .EDU domain 
Disqus is just the medium to login to that website for commenting. So, don't mix it up with the website. Your backlink will be counted from the .EDU website only.
Mindset question which may help:

Before thinking about Bing rankings in particular and whether to list it as an accomplishment, what if you zoomed out. Way out.

(You may have already done this but in case not yet...)

What’s the purpose of SEO? Arguable but I would say:



To bring your message and value to more people who can benefit from learning about you, when they’re actively searching.

So, if you’re looking to describe your value on a resume, would it be worth framing it in terms of how many people (searchers) have you helped find you with your SEO approach? 

Eg. I helped reach 100k people searching for X topic find us, which continues now, using SEO that spans Google, Bing and other engines. This resulted in a business impact of...

Some of the specific parts of making this happen  include:
- Google visibility up 10%
- Bing visibility up 180%
Agree with what’s been stated. 

Out of context, it’s worthless and potentially raises more negative questions.

If you can demonstrate that you found an untapped opportunity in Bing and created a strategy to capitalise, which had positive business impact, then it’s definitely an accomplishment 
I feel Biing and Duck Duck Go are giving a high competition to Google and more and more people are turning towards a search engine which doesn't compromise your data. Ranking on Bing can be considered an achievement and it can definitely be fruitful in the coming years. 
Who are you aiming your resume at?

Small business/company: Go for it, they might love it!

F500: They'll throw your resume away, the company will feel you're listing the best you can do - and the accomplishment is so small that you're not worth their time
Well it depends.  
Depends upon how much competition and associated traffic with those keywords. Also is that traffic converting into sales (or whatever goals your website have) or not.

You can put this on resume but be ready to answer the Questions in interview that how will you rank those keywords on Google. Remember that Google still holds approx 70% of traffic and being there on top is real achievement. 

  

For one it depends on what company you're working with. Is it a local company or a huge one?



One thing that can impress a hiring manager is being able to explain how switching to bing ended up improving your ROI. Here's an example that I personally worked with.



You can find jobs that are just one of the skills you listed above or jobs that want you to know a little of all of them. I think your skills you already have would go well with any of these areas. Do some more digging and see what you are the most interested in and start there. 
You should look into ad operations. It deals with a mix of campaign implementation, troubleshooting tags, and analytics. There’s a subreddit [r/adops](reddit.com/r/adops), check it out. 
Instagram. Create an Instagram traffic loop, in simple terms: 
Create content
Schedule 
Use hashtags
Use followliker to automate like/follow etc
Use pixeled links to track and remarket

I would then filter the keywords based on SALES PROBABILITY (ie., is this the kind of keyword someone looking to enroll in a course would want to search for???)

I would get a RESOURCE type article written (or I'd do it myself) which upsells my mailing list through a FREE AUTORESPONDER mini-course

I would then promote there resource article through 'canned email responses' (not spam - the person seeking info would have to email the email address to get an email with my RESOURCE link on it)

Where would I promote the email address? Linkedin groups / FB groups /  'ask questions' using Twitter hashtags / etc


This technique works because you FILTER OUT people who aren't serious - you only get people who are MOTIVATED



\- Fiverr (charge per hour - pay based on effort)

\- Freelancer (varies - can be monthly - pay based on effort) 


\- Upwork (great variety - make sure ask for case studies - can be hourly / daily / monthly)

The bottom line?  
Your email list will be your most important ASSET
Would also like to see one


What are you looking to do? See how it's structured and KPIs? 
Learn from those around you but don’t expect them to teach you everything. Be curious! 
I was prepared for a lot of things going into agency work but one thing I didn’t anticipate was how much disappointment there is. No matter how well you do, clients always want you to do better, and they’ll always set unrealistic targets and expect you to reach them because “you’re the expert”.

So learn to be confident that you’re doing a good job, while also being humble about what you still have to learn. Be pro-mistake and pro-honesty, and it’ll go a long way to helping you build relationships.



Set expectations with your clients. Underpromise and overdeliver. Be strict with them about deadlines and workloads. Add an extra 20% of time into all of your project plans because they WILL fuck you around. Only allow them to make 2 corrections to your drafts. Question yourself and your team internally and acknowledge when you’ve made mistakes but present a united front externally. Be solutions-focused.

Be nice to your web developers and IT teams, both on yours and the client side. They will save your ass countless times.

My advice: don't burn out, set a nice steady rhythm, don't stress, and aim for slow steady progress. Try to get as close as you can to working with the agency's big clients, they'll look good on your resume, while little clients will drive you nuts.
Keep learning & keep reading. Sign up to good digital marketing newsletters and try and read them every day. Stay on top of trends.

Do that, and you’ll be invaluable.
Please be less chipper.
Good on you.


Search for good university course topics and Google them to get a broad understanding
There's plenty of free stuff to get you going. MailChimp autoresponder is free for up to 2000 subscribers.
Google itself has a lot of free resources beyond Gmail. Google Drive and Office are incredibly useful.


Best of luck to you and remember that you will be spending time instead of money.
Hey -- Would need some more context to this, but I would recommend trying tutorials on YouTube or Linkedin. They both have Intro videos, and tutorials on things like creating campaign and setting KPI's. Truthfully, most people learn best through hands-on experiences, and I would actually recommend that more than anything else. Im sure you can reach out to some early start-up company, or someone that needs some extra help with their marketing efforts to see if you can get some exposure. Digital Marketing in 2019 is all data-driven, and you'll need to be able to provide both Quantitative and Qualitative analyses. May be a bit difficult without a college education first, but you never know. Good luck!
“:

I would reach out to your CRM rep and get a refresher course on what you're paying for. Have them provide some examples of what it can do. 
If you know what regulars order or have a way to input transactional data for visitors into your CRM you will be able to provide a much more informed and personal experience from your CRM marketing Comms. This is the whole reason for having a CRM imho. Otherwise you are just blasting out blanket messages/newsletters. 

What would be better is to collect that sort of.transactional data and reach out to the client a day after their visit asking them for feedback on the appriate feedback medium. You can personalize down to dish if you know what the individual in the CRM ordered. You can ask how impressed their guests were with thier choice of restaurant. 





Email is the way to go. Newsletters for specials or monthly updates, coupons, special offers, etc. Long-term I would investigate a loyalty program.
Email automations and customer match audiences on Facebook when you have promotions running. You can set up 'store visit'' type campaigns targeting your database. 

Which CRM and what package did you purchase?  
This will determine what your CRM is capable of doing.   
Also, what type of restaurant chain is it?
Emails but also using our existing lists to create lookalike/custom audiences on Google, Facebook and rtb networks. 
What kind of data are you able to collect?

Some ideas:

* If you can track when the customer visited, sending them a request to review on Google (with a coupon incentive for following through) would be a great way to bring in current and new customers.
* Set up email campaigns that encourage customers to share deals with friends.
Is your POS connected to the CRM?
Have you thought of freelancing for businesses?  


It's something you can do from home, if you have testimonials, references, and pictures to share to prove that you actually have done it successfully, i'm sure there are a ton of business owners that would love to have the results that proper Web-design & SEO brings them.. You'd just have to learn how to sell a little ;)  



  
If you PM me i'd be happy to give you a guide i've been working on to get clients online... I'd be happy to share it with you for free because I'm still testing it out but I've already had some people get pretty good results with it... wouldn't mind a couple more testimonials for it though ;)   

I would advise you to start an account on Upwork & freelancer.com. It's a great start for recruiting new clients. 
Good luck. 
It becomes a spam fest. Just look at most low quality posts on marketing subreddits and that's about the "news" you're going to get.
Not a subreddit but zest.io might accomplish what you're looking for.
This post is extremely vague.


Have you looked at WordStream? Is that along the lines of what you're looking for?

&#x200B;
I’ve got a way to aggregate your advertising dollars across many of those platforms. I don’t know if that’s ultimately what you’re looking to do but if you spend enough on those per month we can help. DM me.
IntelliAd?
&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Marketo 

Vocus

HubSpot

Yesware

Salethru

Optimove

LocalVox

WordStream
No platform will cover every ad platform under the sun. Find one that covers your main channels and then do the rest on the native ad platforms.
Create a folder for a particular day and whatever you post should go in That folder. Make it a daily habit. This will give better organisation and will give you more insight on posts. 

Above method is better if you post stories on fb & insta. Stories and posts combine to make huge unsorted data
Google Drive is great, each client can have a "Photos" folder and you can dump everything in there. Drive File Stream allows you to access those files from your OS instead of using a browser.


If you're a budding photographer then Adobe Lightroom is pretty affordable (they do a £10ish/month Lightroom and Photoshop package) and a fantastic organisation and editing tool. 



&#x200B;


&#x200B;


&#x200B;


&#x200B;


Hi Op. Just so I’m clear, will you be paid by the Erasmus + grant or are you looking for a paid internship?
[deleted]
Following
Zoom.us
I use both GoToWebinar and BrightTALK at work. I prefer GTW because it interfaces with our marketing automation software and it doesn’t force users to create an account in order to attend and view webinars. I received a lot of complaints on the latter from our customers. 


I recommend creating a list of required features you need from a webinar platform and then go from there. 

I’ve been running webinars for the past 4ish years. If you have any questions, feel free to ask!
Join.me is pretty solid UX.  We use Skype and GoToMeeting internally.

Check Webinar Jam 

Why not build a business using your experience in Seo? That’s what I did. I started an ecommerce business ranking sites and selling products. At least that’ll stand better against the test of time, especially if you build a solid brand that customers are raving for.
[removed]
\>Do you think companies will still be hiring for exclusively SEO roles in 5 years from now?

 

Large enterprises and agencies want 2 things:

2. a lot of variance in your skill set, which is what you need to lift if you're exclusively SEO. 

Definitely be careful with copyrighted/trademarked properties.  

You could, however, do something with a focus on toys or nostalgia.  You do have the ability to play around with phrases like "To infinity and beyond!" or "There's a snake in my boot!".
  

Using somebody else’s content can generate copyright issues; rather you can create your own character and use it for marketing. 
The easiest thing to do is make sure your google ads and google analytics are linked. Then you can create audiences with google analytics and use that for remarketing.
https://developers.google.com/adwords-remarketing-tag/parameters

Check out the "Other Sites" section.
[removed]

I will be waiting until some experts unpack this tool's features.
Didn't know what this was, I Googled it. Thanks for writing this post, or I would not have found out!

Separate strategy and possibly targeting for every initiative. How many of the 200 are similar versus unique?

What's the general salary range? LinkedIn can be expensive but can be better than FB/IG for some things.

You definitely want a branding and awareness ever green campaign. Make sure you're winning impression share for your own name and then work out for certain keywords.


YouTube, Gmail can also fall under the search bucket.

I can do a GA/Social audit if you want a report of best practices as a premier Google, platinum bing and top tier FB partner. See how close you are to 100% best practices and then you can get into creative and really cool stuff. 
30% of budget on Various type of display, text ads on google. 

30% Then i would do youtube ads- 2nd biggest search engine


10% other platforms like gmail, email marketing, affiliate marketing. 

 
You mean for Facebook Ads or for Google Ads?
Here are some things to get you started on your path to being a Digital Marketing Generalist. These will give you a strong foundation for many concepts. Hopefully one of them will spur a specialty for you!  I've been a digital marketer for 10 years and have had to have deep knowledge of all of the below-listed categories. 

**GOOGLE CERTS**

* [YouTube Certification](https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/6145895?hl=en)
* [Google Digital Unlocked Certification](https://learndigital.withgoogle.com/digitalunlocked) 
* [Google Analytics Qualified Individual Certification](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/)
* [Mobile Advertising Course](https://support.google.com/partners/answer/6208386?hl=en)

**FACEBOOK CERTS & COURSES**

* [Facebook Advertising Core Competencies](https://www.facebook.com/micro_site/url/?click_creative_path[0]=link&click_from_context_menu=true&country=US&destination=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Furl%2F%3Fhref%3D%252Fbusiness%252Flearn%252Fcertification%252Fexams%252F310-101%26cmsid%3D184174329075631%26creative%3Dlink%26creative_detail%3D310_101_header_link_tc01%26create_type%26destination_cms_id%3D562724600781022%26orig_http_referrer%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fwww.facebook.com%252Fbusiness%252Flearn%252Fcertification%253Fref%253Dens_rdr%26search_session_id&event_type=click&last_nav_impression_id=0bmQhmRW2g5udHsP7&max_percent_page_viewed=36&max_viewport_height_px=631&max_viewport_width_px=1366&orig_http_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%3Fref%3Dens_rdr&orig_request_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%2Fexams&primary_cmsid=184174329075631&primary_content_locale=en_US&region=noam&scrolled=true&session_id=2dQYfDxQ9YNy5EVir&site=fb4b&extra_data[view_type]=initial_view&extra_data[site_section]=learn&extra_data[placement]=%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%2Fexams&extra_data[creative_detail]=310_101_header_link_tc01&extra_data[destination_cms_id]=562724600781022)
* [Facebook Certified Planning Professional](https://www.facebook.com/micro_site/url/?click_creative_path[0]=link&click_from_context_menu=true&country=US&destination=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Furl%2F%3Fhref%3D%252Fbusiness%252Flearn%252Fcertification%252Fexams%252F322-101%26cmsid%3D184174329075631%26creative%3Dlink%26creative_detail%3D322_101_header_link_tc01%26create_type%26destination_cms_id%3D174241143238179%26orig_http_referrer%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fwww.facebook.com%252Fbusiness%252Flearn%252Fcertification%253Fref%253Dens_rdr%26search_session_id&event_type=click&last_nav_impression_id=0bmQhmRW2g5udHsP7&max_percent_page_viewed=75&max_viewport_height_px=631&max_viewport_width_px=1366&orig_http_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%3Fref%3Dens_rdr&orig_request_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%2Fexams&primary_cmsid=184174329075631&primary_content_locale=en_US&region=noam&scrolled=true&session_id=2dQYfDxQ9YNy5EVir&site=fb4b&extra_data[view_type]=initial_view&extra_data[site_section]=learn&extra_data[placement]=%2Fbusiness%2Flearn%2Fcertification%2Fexams&extra_data[creative_detail]=322_101_header_link_tc01&extra_data[destination_cms_id]=174241143238179)
* [Facebook Blueprint Course Catalog](https://www.facebookblueprint.com/student/catalog)

**HUBSPOT CERTS & COURSES (Great foundational resource)**

* [Inbound Marketing Certification](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/inbound-marketing)
* [Inbound Certification](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/inbound) (different from inbound marketing)
* [Email Marketing Certification](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/email-marketing)
* [Content Marketing Certification](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/content-marketing)

**MOZ CERTS & COURSES**

* [Beginner's Guide to SEO](https://moz.com/beginners-guide-to-seo)

Good luck!
Google Analytics would be incredibly helpful as well. Data is a huge aspect of digital marketing; being able to analyze that data and make decisions based on that analysis is incredibly useful.

You could also look into getting certified on a marketing automation platform like Marketo or Pardot. 
I always say build your own website from scratch. It can be a website about you like a resume or a personal interest one, just build one. You will learn a lot, and it's starting to really be a requirement for people wanting DM jobs. You can use a content management system like wordpress and it's relatively easy. Guves uou an idea of basics to a website, and you'll learn how to use a CMS. I would also subscribe and read this everyday to get to know current news in DM, which i always ask candidates about...https://searchengineland.com and moz.com is great too.



Moz has great beginners guide to seo to help you learn the basics and get to know terminology.

I would recommend also setting up a few google ppc ads and facebook and instagram ads for friends' sites or the new website you build. Just knowing how that logistically works and having some idea of how to set those ads up are huge. And you can run ads for cheap just to go through the excercise. Under 25 bucks cheap.

Also, get to know terms like CPC, CPA, click through rates, conversion rates if you dont yet. I find a lot of people don't know those things.

Best of luck! 
I think SEO knowledge is a must-have. In addition to Google AdWords, learn about Facebook advertising, Instagram advertising, Instagram influencers, Quora Influencers, community building, etc.

You would like to check out some blogs like neilpatel.com and backlinko.com. Additionally, blogs like the Ahrefs blog, Moz blog, search engine land, kissmetrics, contently, copyblogger, etc. can be of great help.

Not much of an expert, but that's pretty much it.

P.S. Forgot to add about video content. It's one of the must-have in this digital world. YouTube, the 2nd largest search engine, must be leveraged.
From personal experience, Learn the following;
A marketing automation system (for example act-on (even tho act-on dont use act-on)). 



A planning tool like asana or trello is always handy in a workplace. 



Try KWFinder
Spyfu or SEMrush
The cheapest ones are Semrush, SpyFu, iSpionage, Backlincoa and keywords planner.
Hi,

best that I have used is Google Adwords Keyword Planner and Keyword Planner
This is a list of the 15 best keyword research tools in 2018.
1. Soovle - my favorite feature: Saved Suggestions
2. Jaaxy - my favorite feature: QSR (quoted search result)
3. Google Search Console - my favorite feature: Google Analytics + Google Search Console
4. Keyword Planner - my favorite feature: “Top of page bid”
* InfiniteSuggest.com
* K-Meta.com
* Keyword.io
* Keyworddit.com
* Keys4up.com
* KeywordRevealer.com
* KeywordShitter.com
* LSIKeywords.com
* Moz.com/Explorer
* RankSonic.com/generate-keywords-key.html
* Ubersuggest.org

All free
Check ubersuggest.io

It sounds like you are putting value on advice Google is giving you, so that would explain it if you aren’t using exclusions. Your “Google team” has one goal, convince you to spend more money. 
>Facebook re-marketing has quite good and google ads remarketing has done nothing


Hi,

If you are going for remarketing campaign I would suggest going for adding offers and sale promotion to people. This will increase your conversion rates. Running the remarketing campaign needs more time than 1 month. Please try to improve your Website interface also.

&#x200B;
Consider e-mail marketing maybe? I had success with retargeting through e-mail marketing, especially when I offered discounts.
I've had a few clients who adamantly swear by their Instagram bots. I always recommend hiring an intern or using an exterior contractor to do essentially the same thing. With that warning out of the way...

The use of an auto-responder is quite effective on places like LinkedIn, Facebook, and Twitter. However, Instagram is the exception. Instagram has a much better anti-spam algorithm and if you start to gain real traction and get a lot of followers this is the easiest way to get banned or shadow-banned. The only way to get banned faster is to like a thousand other posts a day.

I've been using Instazood near 6 months and run scheduling and promotion for 20 of my accounts that are using local IP for 8 of my accounts I can say I'm satisfied with this tools because it's fair and help you to improve your accounts every day.

I recommend it.

1. The bots are only for boosting interactions/engagement not getting us fake followers
3. In terms of performance, we should come back to check the conversion rate of the targets every week and delete the targets with lower conversion rate than 5%
4. We should set proxy for the optimum result, I have different accounts. For each I have set up a proxy to connect to Instagram from nearby IP.
5. We should always focus on the content and let the bot works the boring job of interactions.

Keep an eye on social media examiner and neal schaffer. They have good ones. 
If we're restricted to the first half of the year the Pubcon Florida, SMX West,  Digital Summit Phoenix. If you can go later in the year, do Ungagged, Pubcon Vegas. I haven't been to Mozcon in the past few years, and I've heard it's not as good as it was 
Traffic and Conversion February in San Diego.
To echo what others have said - SMX advanced is great as well as Digital Summit. 

If you're in the ecommerce space, IRCE in Chicago is a great one as well.
Hey Nany, I would say you just have started so if you focus on client to bring business initially, that will be great to start. It difficult to give exact price per hour or per month for those services. Market is highly competitive so you need to stand in market first, bring some clients and start making money. Once you have your brand strong, you may charge what you want to.
Hi Nany, how are you?

&#x200B;

To know how much to charge for your services, you can calculate it using a simple formula.

&#x200B;

You need to know first, **how much want you earn per month**?

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Now you need to know, **how much time spend you at each job?**

&#x200B;

If you spend 5 hours over the week to creating content. You have to charge at minium 113$ for your job.

&#x200B;

That two questions are the answer of your question.

&#x200B;

\^J\^
What if you go to [Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/index.htm), search for copywriting or social media salaries in your city, take the average salary, triple it ( to incorporate taxes, business costs etc.) and divide it by 12 to get a monthly revenue goal
Contextual advertising is a way of marketing or advertising based on the context, an user has searched for. It shows you advertisements for the keywords that you have provided while searching for some article. For example, if you have searched about clothes, you will be shown advertisements related with clothing. 


2. media planning—where the advertisements are to be run; also known as "placements"
3. media buying—how the advertisements are paid for
Congrats!
Mangotools kw finder is great!
It looks great, although I have been actively using SEMRush so cant afford to subscribe to both. However VIDEO is the biggest and best advice I could give you. Focus on pain points and comparison why would I use you over SEMRush Moz or any other tools. Any questions do let me know. And remember the future is video!
If you mean keyword ranking, use SEMrush. You can choose which keywords you want to track for that domain, and it will show you the changes is SERP rankings. 
Ahrefs

or just Google console is enough most of the time. 
There are plenty of tools out there however they will cost you money most are around £75 or $99 depending on where you live. A quick list off the top of my head includes;
SEOMoz
SEMRush
SEO Profiler

That question is kinda vague, are you asking about companies that run ads, use affiliates, utilize it for social selling? Also what benefits are you talking about, increased sales, traffic, exposure? 


 It's like asking what industries benefit the most from advertising. 
Food/beverage industry. It’s huge for any restaurant to have a social media following that’s local and invigorated. 
Any business with products you can take pictures of easily, even better if the product is expensive! Particular industries that come to mind are restaurants, boutique retailers, luxury retailers, customizable promotional products,   


It's also worth noting that many service based industries can use social media to connect with their customers and drive additional referrals.
You need to have a fundamental understanding of marketing and advertising. Get a textbook or a classic marketing book. Afterwards, you’ll need to understand what digital marketing is. Taking Google garage, Hubspot, MOZ SEO guide, quick sprout guide to online marketing will help. Then you need to start implementing what you’re learning on a project. As far as certifications are concerned, people do care about them to some extent. AdWords and analytics certs are the most respected while everything else is secondary. It counts what the job post is asking. 


You'd be surprised at how many agencies/companies are in need of someone with your skills, even with limited work experience. 

&#x200B;

No any SEO tools or even Google Analytics provide exact details about your need. But, they always try to give some assumptions based on some scenario and their own algorithms. I have few website as well and when I look for reports into different tools, they always give me different figures. 

Here, I can give you one more idea about how to track 99% accurate details. You may create separate database table which you can record visitors information by getting details like IPaddress, DateTime, URL, Region based on IP address. By this way, you can easily look into exact report for you by writing sql query and know the result.

I have done this for my other website and daily checking report in admin section and happy to see the exact details I want.

I hope this help you

Thank you
Check out Supermetrics - you can pull all the data in there automatically.
Read Avinash’s blog for the best advice available on dashboards. 
Create something like a dashboard.


Maybe have a few other tables.  Like top 10 keywords, top 10 creatives, top 10 landing pages, etc.



2: What kind of "basic marketing" are you looking at? If you're looking to study how Digital Marketing works. Have a read through on my historical post in this sub section. Post: [https://www.reddit.com/r/DigitalMarketing/comments/8mrx78/beginners\_guide\_to\_digital\_marketingcontent/](https://www.reddit.com/r/DigitalMarketing/comments/8mrx78/beginners_guide_to_digital_marketingcontent/)


4: Read your competitors weakness. Most of them failed at it, use that and make it your own strength. If you can do that, congratulations. You have your own Unique Selling Proposition. Conclusion: Always listen and do your research on what the users truly wants.
What do you mean by analytics? Do you mean analytical tools or the actual data?
Woorank, lipperhey, seositecheckup, varvy
Screaming frog. Semrush. Search metrics 
PM'd
Facebook 100%.

Facebook advertising tools mean you can promote your posts to the older demographic and other interests. (It's cheaper CPM's to the older market).

However I don't really know the product you are on about so maybe the biggest advantage is you can RETARGET the visitors of your website that come through any other method.
I'd go with Facebook and maybe Google+? Google+ is great for finding communities so if you have a specific target group in mind, you might be able to find a relevant community there.

Also, if there're resources to create video content, I suggest exploring youtube. It ranks well in Google search so making videos, maybe tutorials on using hemp or something can bring in new customers. 
Facebook is a social medium more so for millennials and generation X. While a good bit of users are still over the age of 65, there is not enough to consider Facebook a Baby boomer platform. Instagram your hitting a strong demographic of Generation Z, X and millennials. But more Generation Z utilizes Instagram.  As of 2018 an estimated 71% of US businesses are on Instagram. While 80% of Instagram users follow a business page. Using Hashtags on Instagram can be a VERY effective way to grow a business presence. As you can use 11+ hashtags and have them all be effective. While on Twitter I recommend only using two and Facebook... well there is no reason to use hashtags on Facebook in my opinion. Studies show little to no benefits to use hashtags on Facebook. At the end of the day it’s your call, but I think Instagram is an excellent platform to grow and audience. Connect the Instagram to your Facebook business page, and have them work together. You can crosspost very easily from Instagram to Facebook. 
LinkedIn possibly?
you can try Instagram
Doesn’t matter what you sell or to whom. Be fun, homes, accessible, and show real value to potential clients. 
Hire an intern thats actually funny.

Regularly posting content that is informative and relatable while making use of a good number of hashtags is the more effective way to increase your followers. 
Hire a company that does this for a living. It's not about promoting your product it's about engaging with the community and growing your online precence.
I believe effective short content which are regularly posted get you followers. Also, SMM over Twitter with niche customer base will be good.

I would say 10,000 followers with 20% active users is a good number to begin with in 1 month.
Change it to what YOU WANT not what he thinks for you


3. Hope you have been tracking your work. You can use your data gather from your Analytics and other kpi tracking reports to present how you have been making revenue for your company.  And present this during your negotiation 


If you only use one ad account for multiple clients, you can only have one payment method attached, so you'll need to charge yourself and then charge your clients yourself - which is messy if you have multiple clients.
I think you are better off having the client create their account in The Business Manager. They enter their credit card details etc. They add you as an admin to the page. You can work on ads for that page without being financially responsible for their ad spend. 
Our clients have a predetermined monthly ad spend. We front that budget and include it in our monthly invoice.
You're doing it the right way though. Admin rights to their PAGE, but ad ACCOUNT on your Business Manager.
For as long as I have done this I set my clients up on a monthly budget with management fee included. I pay for the placements myself and get paid from my clients once a month.
I would pay on behalf of my clients with a rewards credit card, then bill the client for the balance. 

Two ways to go about this.

One have them reimburse you by sending a report to them of the amount spent at the end of each month or 

Instagram. The younger demographic and music go hand and hand. Instagram is a great way to promote your SoundCloud and post clips of your music along with an eye catching image can be very effective. All you have to do to start promoting on Instagram is go to your settings and turn your account into a business account. Start promoting your posts with unique hashtags add a $10 budget to the post and you can attract new followers/fans/buyers. 
Short clips of your songs on IG/FB with advertising budget aimed at people who are fans of similar artists.

If you have a website and a gig page set up your facebook pixel and you can retarget those website visitors (who live within 5km of your gig venues) with ads for them too.


Imagine if you had access to hundreds of hours of videos of your favourite artists before they made it!
Create YouTube videos with you just performing your material, doesn't have to be fancy, only has to be good music. Have an Instagram as well, like others here advised, it's what people use a lot and you can post your performance clips to stories
Don't pay for anything, check out Facebook blueprint and hubspot is also good
[removed]
Dan Henry. Also Facebook blueprint
I'm afraid you're going to get a lot of guru's chiming in with their course, so beware!

I used Billy Gene's course Clicks into Customers which was awesome. Right now I have about 8 clients nearing 6 figures by the end of the year. I say that as no affiliate what so ever, just highly recommended. He is a little explicit at times so you have to be ok with that.
[removed]
  Facebook blueprint and hubspot are  good 
Adespresso academy or Wordstream PPC university have some decent content
Pay for social ads - they work if you target with a clear offer and intention.



I agree, unless you’re a bigger brand with tens of thousands of followers or more it isn’t worth it... of course you have to put in the work to actually get that many followers, but niche companies will probably never achieve that.


Of course it totally depends on the market. I’ve made purchases from products seen on social ads, but that’s certainly the exception for me.

I do believe that SM brings value, but it depends on which marketing strategies / sources of traffic you prioritize. Also, it depends on the type of business you're promoting.



If you’re there for the sake of being there then of course it won’t work. Having a profile and sharing some updates won’t get you far. 

You have to grow a qualified base by adding value, helping others and being responsive. Depending on your field (and if you’re starting from scratch) , try to find communities that are alread interested in similar products/services that you offer. Try not to talk about your product/service at first so that people can trust you. Then when you suggest or mention your product/service start with “why”; meaning what you’re offering can add to others, and be cool about it. Don’t sound commercial.

If you already have followers then engage with them by offering tips on how to get certain things done. Show them some ‘behind the scenes” of your workday. Steal the competition’s best ideas (they are your biggest inspiration). 

And remember to be consistent. This takes time but it will take you where you want to go. 

I can recommend some articles if you want to!
[removed]
Ahref gives you the best information about your stats! 

You can also try these tools for better SEO competitive research:

1. **Alexa**: Alexa allows tracking global web traffic of your own and competitor websites. “Information is power,” and Alexa is one of those must-have tools that you can use to transform data into competitive value for your business.
2. **SE Ranking** – track rankings: SE Ranking helps you monitor competitors’ search rankings on any engines and target regions, up to five projects per website.
4. **Monitor Backlinks** – look at backlink profiles: Monitor Backlinks is new to the market, but has already earned a great reputation. You can track various competitors’ backlinks, disclose a bunch of negative backlinks, and find quality ones.
5. **SpyFu** – view competitor keywords: SpyFu is a powerful tool that lets you view all data on competitors’ keywords in both organic search and AdWords – and get even more related keywords. You just need to add competitors’ keywords and get an overall view of their strategy.
We use zoho projects in our organization. It pretty much does all the things you asked for. Project and task management, Hours tracking, resource allocation and profitability.


Try using Zoho with a Premium or Enterprise plan. It offers a Time Sheet Approval feature that offers a Start-and-Stop Timer icon just next to some of your tasks which helps you to keep track of the time you work on a particular task. It also has the option for log hours where you need to insert the hours manually by typing them.   
You could use [trackingtime.co](https://trackingtime.co) along with Asana to track and bill hours. 
We use Teamdeck, as it has all resource management features. Resource allocation/scheduling, timesheets and time tracking, leave management, reports - it saves us nearly $10k/month as we don't have to use any other tools for that and we spend less time on back and forth communication.
Make sure that your content matches up well with what you are promoting in your ads. The relevancy will help lower your bounce rate.


My best advice is try to put yourself in the mind of someone looking for your product or service. How would they type a string of words to find your product? Ask friends and family how they would search for it and try to craft keywords around that. 
Would make sure to check campaign settings. Google likes to set defaults to what maximizes their inventory. Two big ones to check are:  
  
Search Partners - This will show your search ads on non-google properties. I have never seen this do well in terms of conversions. It will, however, open up the volume and drive lower CPCs.  
  
Location Options - Make sure to set this to 'People in your targeted locations' not 'People in, or who show interest in, your targeted locations (recommended)' or 'People searching for your targeted locations'  
  
Once you have done proper keyword research (you can use the keyword tool AdWords provides) mapped out a plan and properly set up the campaigns it is critical to make a commitment of budget and time. It can be 7 or 30 days depending on what you are spending.  
  
The reason this is important is that you need enough data collection for statistical significance to make informed decisions and optimizations need to be applied incrementally and individually so that you can find what works and what doesn't.  
  
I like SEMRush, if you can afford the $99 a month, you should see some good results and it makes keyword planning & reporting so much easier.

A few things to consider when analysing your PPC campaigns:

* Site content \- AdWords will give you a &#37; of how relevant they class your landing pages are, use it. Make sure the page\(s\) your paying to promote are relevant to the PPC ad, don't expect users to click past the front page, they expect to see everything they need on the first click.
* One of the best ways to get inspiration is to look at your competitors, what are they doing for PPC? Don't copy it, but it will give you some pointers.
Build a better funnel. 0 conversions are either bounces because the ad doesnt match, or they are clicking away because of something else.

Try to go the "have a freebie on me" route. Give something in return for an email address. Maybe push it a little and also ask to like the facebook page. 


Goodluck.
[Imran md ali ](http://www.bootcampmastermindprogram.com/bootcamp) from Singapore can help you.
Gross Profit = Gross Revenue * Profit Margin

(Sales Growth - Marketing Cost) / Marketing Cost = ROI


That totally depends on the niche and audience and where can you find the most audience.
Facebook and Google are your biggest channels. You can literally spend your entire budget on these two platforms and you won't reach a ceiling in a while. 

It sounds like you're doing ecommerce. Your spend can go on Facebook and Google entirely, and you can utilize tools like ActiveCampaign for drip emails (email marketing). 

I would focus on Dynamic Product Ads (DPAs) on Facebook and Dynamic Display Ads (DDAs) on Google. Set up a product catalog of the products that your client is selling (on both Facebook and Google). The idea is when someone sees your first ad and click on it, they will go to your site and if they don't buy the product they looked at, you can remarket that same product to them by using DPA/DDAs. To target these sort of people, you would use custom audiences feature in Facebook and use events to target the people who initiated checkout and didn't purchase (abandoned carts) or saw a product and didn't purchase. 

Hope this helps you. I wish I had this advice when I was at your stage of an interview :) Good luck!
Are they giving you any other information about the campaigns? Reach, conversion, cost per result, size of their marketing lists, etc?
Vanity. People will share photos and articles they are mentioned in. 



Weird you get downvoted, this is a pretty good topic/question. Also, you seem to be quite knowledgeable about digital marketing, which puts you in a good position to easily get a job after graduating (or whilst studying even).

Back to your question. I really like the other comment in this thread, use vanity post to attract viewership. 

I would be inclined to believe that your potential user segment would be quite limited to students that are currently studying at your highschool and to some extent the parents/teachers of these students.

Knowing that you have been collecting data (good work on that btw) I would reccomend pumping out more articles that have a higher CTR and low bounce rate.

In terms of promoting the newspaper, considering its a highschool papaer and there probably is no budget for paid promotion, you need as much exposure as possible for free (organically). I.e. social posts linking your site, edm's, maybe even see if you can find students with a high social reach (instagram/facebook/snapchat) and organise some sort of unpaid shoutout.
Integrate your site with a messenger chatbot. Post the qr code on your school page or around school. 

Check out the Keywords Everywhere extension for Chrome. 
I would just use the AdWords keyword explorer, it would include data from YouTube. 

Competition number is just how many other people tend to bid on that keyword, if a lot of people bid it would have high competition.
I love MorningFame.

TubeBuddy and VidIQ are good too.

My practice has been, to enter seeding keywords in Youtube search bar and pick popular long tail searches from there. and the tool I have used is "Heartbeat" Chrome Extension which could do following things for you, and it helped me.

 YouTube \- Tag Finder to help users with related video and search traffic. \- Find YouTube tags for better SEO and discoverability! \- option to force grid or list view for subscriptions \- View videos that are trending now in your areas of interest! \-\- Add your own website to YouTube as part of your channel page \- Search YouTube comments more easily \- manage comments and subscribers \- View trending YouTube videos in your subscriptions feed. \- Built in link shortner for YouTube descriptions .
 

If you are serious about Youtube, I'd still recommend keeping the account though as they have some good features for SEO and offer mass optimisation tools that can save a lot of time. 
What are you expecting from the certification? Knowledge, or a resume booster?
Going against the grain here... I think doing the certification at Cornell is a great idea if you’re looking to get a job. It’s a prestigious and trustworthy school that you can slap on your resume and, as someone who has a digital marketing certificate from Waterloo up here in Canada, loads of jobs ask and are wowed by it. 

You’re paying for the school’s branding and prestige on your resume. Hiring managers and owners like to see education that comes from institutions they know with bonus points for ones they respect. 
[removed]
I looked at that program too.

UCI	         Digital Marketing	Certificate	$3,450.00	
Emeritus	Digital/Social Media	Certificate	$1,400.00			
eCornell	Digital Marketing	Certificate	$7200/$500 Month
Springboard	Digital Marketing	Certificate	$3500/$300 
Hey there, so Buffer is a social media scheduling tool, while Hubspot is a CRM/marketing automation and Marketo is a marketing automation platform. There's tons of information out there regarding Marketo & Hubspot \- Just Google a bit and you'll find plenty of information. 

I'm partial to Buffer over Hootsuite, especially with Buffer's support of Instagram posting. However they are both similar tools with comparable features & benefits.
Hi,


Hubspot is cheap but in terms of  Functionality and advance features Marketo beats it anytime.


The list should be something like this 

Marketo vs Pardot vs Eloqua



I use a combination of products that are a bit more specialized and less expensive.  

Active campaign for marketing automation.

Serpbook for search engine tracking.
Pipedrive as a CRM for recording deals. 


Is very nice. 

The best lessons you're going to get are from actually doing- go market some products on the internet my dude. Grow some businesses, make some money. You're gonna do awesome 
Go out have fun. Enjoy your time in real world. Work is enough! Doesn't deserve to go deep in it!
Probably have your posts go through a editor/copywriter
Marketing is marketing. I’d encourage you to get a degree in Marketing (rather than “digital” marketing), then apply your knowledge and skill up if required.

Marketing is at the core of every business, so you should be okay for jobs if you apply yourself.

Meanwhile, marketing in general will give you foundation to understand human behavior and edge over ppl with tech and digital formal education when climbing the ladder...
Hey mate, have worked in digital marketing for the last 10+ years. Picking up a qualification in digital marketing from a university will help, but only at a very surface-level for the job descriptions that ask for "marketing or communications-related degree" preferred.

If you're serious about getting into the game, and want to get a step-up while you're still studying, I'd advise doing a few of the following things:

- start blogging or building an online presence. This could be as simple as following a few influencers on Twitter and contributing (constructively) to their posts, or as advanced as starting your own website and sharing your thoughts around a niche. Here's a good example of a gent who started while at uni, but has built a name for himself now: http://pigsdontfly.com/2007/10/introduction.html

- look to build something and "get on the tools" (that's industry parlance). Is there something you can sell online? Writing copy and trying to sell things on ebay? Have you ever tried to set up a Shopify? It's very easy to set up and get familiar with Facebook Ads Manager or Google AdWords - have you tried selling something with them?


It's a fun industry and there's a HEAP you can learn to create value for your clients. Go for it :)
Yes Digital Marketing Is Good Thing If You Do Very Well It Is A Awesome Career.
Post Graduation In Digital Marketing Is Not Required.

If You Work Very Well It Have Nice Job Security 
No, Google is your friend.
Congratulations! Glad you posted this. I always sell myself short. Going to apply for a job now!

What kind of companies does your company help? E-commerce, SaaS?

If you serve ecommerce stores: check Nick Di Sabato
If you serve SaaS companies: Check Price intelligently and also Microconf Videos.

“Machine Learning”

Wibbly Bobbly Slithery-Doo!
The biggest push from google is "AI". I've also heard from agencies "We're data driven".
I’ve seen ‘context is king’. That refers to everything that we need to know to create relevant and timely content.
I am getting a WHOLE lot of "full funnel" approach...which would be way better if people actually did it, but instead they just spit this out at people.



I just heard of "pull" and "push" marketing nomenclatures for the first time instead of the normal "inbound" and "outbound". 
“Respect the Platform”
Native Advertising


The same goes for marketing "catchphrases". It highly depends on who says it. Thus even if you go with a great "catchphrase" it may not work for your company, or for your audience. 
Everybody can think of a phrase like "think different" but not for everyone it will stay the same way as it stays for apple. 

VR, AI, experiences, targeting, segmentation, data. 
"Automation" 

Otherwise I'd scope out some other jobs, if you've been with them for a while and been doing good work you likely deserve more than 35,000 anyways.
My suggestion is to be informed:
3) which is the very minimum goal you have?
4) there are some benefits you may consider instead of just money?

Collect this informations the next step will be read some negotiation books like the ones by Stuart Diamond for example, just to enter in the mood of negotiation. I also suggest to calculate how much you gain by hour per work, extra work and time spent on transportation. It's useful if you must compare two jobs or roles.

Third step will be to bring the subject with your supervisor and make your request, highlight your success and ask at least for a plan to reach your goal.

Good luck
yes, get another job (offer extended and accepted)  that pays more then quit, with 2 weeks notice and a whole lotta class. good luck

0. Get as many free certifications as possible and learn new shit in your free time.
1. Apply to work at all of their competitors.
5. ???
6. Profit.
7. Repeat.
Look at the market value for what your job title or duties are. Additionally, show the value you are bringing and that you are willing to do more but for an increase.


I recommend continuing to increase your market value, get certifications, keep learning, applying new techniques and apply for new jobs. 

I was in a similar situation, then nearly doubled my salary by taking my knowledge elsewhere. 
Here are some tips for paid landing pages which can help you earn profit - 

1. Keep your PPC landing page relevant to the keywords you are bidding on
4. Use unique imagery that will connect with your target personas
6. Use your PPC keywords as the fuel for your landing page content
7. Include trust signals to create an emotional connection with users
8. Prove your worth with: shares, case studies, reviews, followers & more
9. Ensure the length of your PPC landing page matches your overall goals
10. Create compelling call to actions that are effortless to complete
Have you done the google digital garage and analytics academy courses? They are free and good for beginners.
You can check out coursera. They have both free and paid courses. 
Here's a list of a few other resources you may find helpful. 
https://www.odddogmedia.com/advice/career-advice-for-online-marketing/
Best of luck!
Start with the basics from good sources like moz.com
You can learn from youtube videos, much better than just PDFs.

I teach digital marketing courses at teachable.com and I share valuable content for free in my youtube channel.

Join facebook groups and get to know latest trends from popular digital marketing blogs.


Cheers
Jordan Steen
http://cerealentrepreneur.academy
Start listening to “The Marketing Book Podcast”. Marketing changed a lot, it's all about adding value to people's lives now. Make sure what you're learning is still relevant, otherwise it will do your future career more harm then good.
https://www.artillerymarketing.com/marketing-book-podcast

I will Suggest you the best and most refreshed courses where you will learn practically everything what you require, to become a Digital Marketing and SEO specialist:
. 6 Years of Online Marketing Success & Failure (FREE)
And, the Learn list of all SEO and Digital Marketing Courses.
What are you trying to gain with it? More knowledge on how to use Facebook ads effectively, or recognition from employers? 
I skimmed through it and would recommend for some general knowledge, but nothing much in depth. There are several different types of content that go in depth with FB marketing. I would recommend podcast *social media marketer* by Mike Stelznik. The book *give* can't remember who... and [kissmetrics blog](https://blog.kissmetrics.com/facebook-marketing/).
It depends on your current knowledge or if you think future clients or employers would look at this. I've completed all of them and encouraged others to do the same. Although they are lengthy they provide a lot of information if you are new to running ads or business manager in general 
I have some spare time on my hands, gonna try doing it. 
At the very least it's writing a series of words that makes sense. 
An account manager is usually the human interface for an ad campaign. Someone who speaks directly with the client, which would usually be an advertiser, and reports on performance, coordinates creative, tracking, budgets, integration, etc.


Tasks are pretty much setting up campaigns, coordinating with all the relevant departments in your company on behalf of the client, providing reports, troubleshooting, answering questions. It's mostly a lot of emails, logging into things, uploading media, downloading spreadsheets, doing something to them and re-uploading them somewhere else.

Most important traits I think are organization, personability, reliability, and general familiarity with marketing, internet, Excel, and knowing a shit ton of three-letter-acronyms.

Account managers walk around thinking they are God's gift to earth. They are usually married and either have kids or are trying to have kids. If it wasn't for their significant other they probably wouldn't be able to function. 

They don't know how to use computers or most technology. 

This isn't exactly what you're talking about but there have definitely been some concerns with commerce companies and the way they access your data. Especially with increasingly sophisticated algorithms doing most of the heavy lifting, companies can track you across the Internet and figure out a lot of demographic data and match that to your purchase and viewing history. There's the classic example of Target sending coupons for pregnancy related products to a young woman before she even knew she was pregnant, for instance. 


Definitely some ethical gray areas with privacy but also with manipulation and discrimination. I think we're looking at an imminent future where the quality of a product is likely going to be less important than the ability and power companies have to market that product and leverage their audience using data they've gathered on them. And if not that, we might end up with a select few companies–Amazon, Google, Facebook–having effective monopolies on the presentation and distribution of information about products and, well, everything else too. Marketing might only be as good as what the platforms allow. 

If you're interested, the podcast episode was from [Cited](http://citedpodcast.com/online-retailers-ripped-off-holidays/) and they interview the authors of *Virtual Competition: The Promise and Perils of the Algorithm-Driven Economy*. 
The only ethical question in my mind is, do digital products (that are based on or in place of physical products) have any adverse effect on the person they are sold to? If so, are the consumers aware of this possibility? And, have all measures been taken to avoid the inevitable calamity of removing physicality from the process? If these questions aren't answered to satisfaction then it's going to be difficult to get to "what we should do about it." 

Video games and their distribution aren't as big a deal in this regard to me as food or other consumables, though they can't really be replaced with "digital" versions, only digital purchasing, which doesn't degrade the value of the product itself.

The cost of digital products inherently will degrade some value of the product, if for no other reason than a physical item can be exchanged or rearranged in its construction such that it retains some imputed value longer than a purely digital file.




https://www.snapchat.com/ads/sponsored-lenses
The only thing that can improve conversions, from an SEO standpoint, is relevance. Obviously if your site content is relevant to the search terms you rank for, you're going to get higher conversions.

Try to rank for long-tail keywords with strong action words. For example; buy, purchase, register, hire. You can also try to rank for more top-of-funnel keywords like "cheapest, best price, where to get, what is.. etc." site visitors from ToF keywords may not convert into customers on first visit, but they're primed for remarketing or signing up to your newsletter.

1. Tell visitors exactly what they are going to get. Provide visitors with absolutely everything they need to know about your product: What are the features and benefits? What does it look like? What are the possible uses? Who will benefit most from it? How will it be delivered?
 
Your privacy policy can have a huge impact on your email conversions. In one changing the wording just slightly resulted in a 19 percent increase in conversions.

3. Meet the expectation of ppc visitors. If visitors are coming to your landing page via a PPC ad, make sure your ad copy is consistent with your landing page copy. Your ad should tell them about services once they click through to your site.



Hi Ryan,
SEO is a long term strategy and currently works as a better as "assisted conversion" step depending on your industry. If your content in unique and relevant people will find it and share / link etc. If you want a free SEO analysis of your website send me the link at amarkrishnajha at gmail dot com. To stay updated with SEO rand other digital marketing hot topics give www.dgitalerts.com a spin. You will find all latest and relevant articles and popular twitter chat tweets http://dgitalerts.com/seo/ 
Hello, 
I've done some freelance work with managing Adwords accounts. Here's my suggested best approach with charging clients.
There are two schools of thoughts. 
1. Commission per win.
3. % overcharge. 

Commission per win. 
This discipline is most advisable with start-ups that have e-commerce, PaaS, and SaaS business models. They like to scale their business and want an expert on board that would drive results and don't mind expanding new markets. Make sure before winning one of these clients to make sure you have done your homework, and their product/service/brand has an online demand, and you can do this with an extensive keyword search. Have a solid grasp of what the cost of acquisition could be and set one as a target.  Also make sure you have access to their Analytics tools, to make sure you monitor attribution here, as it's common for users to purchase on the 2nd or 3rd visit. A high commission is needed to ensure to cover your costs since repeat business or (Monthly recurring revenue) MRR will not have any commission. Commission per win is a good strategy to make sure that you both create a win-win formula. Depending on the business you work with, but usually, a good recipe is for every successful purchase, the trial I would take 1-2 dollars depending on the company. SaaS/PaaS businesses are willing to give you more than e-commerce businesses, and this strategy works well with them. Expect them to offer you a full-time job if you're doing well.  


Per hour.
2 hours for keyword research
4 hours setting up the ads
It all up to you to decide on how much you want to charge per hour, as this is very relevant to your and where you live, and what you think you worth. Naturally start low and go high. 

It's also a good strategy if the start up your working with is just starting, and it's unclear if they will disrupt a market or change user attitude towards a competing product. 

%Overchage: Is an excellent way to get rid of anyone you don't want to work with and very rarely does anyone accept this,  since you will always be pushing budgets up, and the KPI's and performance metric associated with the payout. If a Marketing budget is 10,000 per month, you will change an extra 2,000 on top of that for your efforts.  

A few things to consider:
1. The better the SEO of the website the easier your job will be. So make sure to SEO audit each site before any action.

2. Google has 70% Market share and controls most search traffic. However, Bing is 30% of the market and has a lower cost per click. You should not neglect Bing. Baidu is great if you are targeting China, and has a lower cost per click.

3. Master effective CTA's as this is part of your work that will excite people to take action. A CTA's can make a significant difference. 

4. Display ads do excellent for e-commerce, especially if you retarget users who've seen a product. 



Reference
http://www.ebizmba.com/articles/search-engines
https://analyticsacademy.withgoogle.com/


I'm interested in this sort of thing as well. When charging someone for AdWords work, or even Facebook ads, does the fee typically include the ad spend or is that extra? 

Some interesting ideas there. Thanks for the link!
The latter, you can't calculate averages the first way.
Thank you A_Cheeky_Greek and 3a5m, that confirms what I've heard from other sources too.
I use Bluehost. I like their customer support. 
That was a useful article. Thanks for sharing
I intend to start blogging soon. I will keep these pointers in mind. Just 'saved' this article. 
IMO i think they can be very rewarding. It is an opportunity for a business to portray themselves as a market leader in their field.
It’s true that a lot of people are sceptical and think that linkedin groups are useless but [studies](http://www.brainstorm-digital.co.uk/blog/b2c-companies-can-use-linkedin-busting-myth/) have shown that many B2B and B2C companies are converting some huge potential using properly their linkedin groups. It’s not easy to grow and manage a group there, it takes [time and efforts](http://rainmaker.fm/audio/link/linkedin-groups-2/). 
Besides Linkedin have made some policies recently that might enhance the user experience.

Are you a content marketer? Generalist? Keyword / SEO ? PPC ? Analytics?

In my experience working with B2B agencies and within the technology space, your portfolio are the people who recommend you and love to work with you. 

Have your own site done right, have a few case studies for work you have done. Do you create content, link or include that, do you speak as an expert? Include any videos or press.


A few posts a week; real, attractive photos of real people (with their permission) and some responsiveness to comments and reviews should be sufficient. Maybe once in a while do something fun like photo competition and offer a valuable prize to get people in the door. Focus on humor and authenticity more than comprehensiveness and buzzwords. 

Be interactive - use Twitter polls and get people to suggest names for new cocktails, vote for their favourite snack, etc.
Good luck with your new adventure in social media marketing for your gastropub. Here is a cool idea for you, why not seek out some people in your area that are hyper active on social media, people who have more than the standard 400 facebook friends on Facebook, those that get like 20+ likes on Instagram with each post and invite them in for dinner asking them if they would like to share their experience of your business, the food, the atmosphere all those things that make your place really great. A genuine post of someone really enjoying themselves can be worth £5000 in online advertising for sure. Something to think about! Oh and please share your gastropub social accounts would love to see how they are coming on. www.peterdoakglobal.com 
Create a monthly spreadsheet in excel with what you will be posting on a daily basis for each channel. Pre-load it and you will stay ahead of the game. Use an automation service to post most of the stuff for you. Although, you will want to engage with people who comment + interact with your posts. 

What are your competitors doing on social?

Answering those two questions should help you develop your content themes and calendar. 
Hey, this sounds like my life! <- formally creative technologist at global ad agencies
Nice, thanks for this.
Great article for anyone who hasn't used Google analytics or doesn't understand its capabilities. Thanks for sharing!
Excellent guide for beginners', thank you for writing and sharing this information.  I have shared it on my Google+ ... :)
is it really necessary to list business on several business listing website to get more traffic ?
Sometimes a performance based bonus. And maybe equity at a startup.
A percentage of revenue is very uncommon for employees. Maybe in a small startup or as a freelancer/agency.



That said, don't think much just start. Take some relatively simple projects in the beginning and  go for bigger challenges  as you gain experience and confidence.


Think of yourself as an entrepreneur and do everything you can to make your client happy.

Make sure you have a portfolio of some work, whether paid/commissioned or not, and start a conversation with folks. You may have to pitch yourself a little bit, but you’re a marketer! Tell your story and have a hook, and you’ll do great.
Firstly you need to know what you want to specialise in then study it well. Next apply what you learnt by getting real clients offer to do it for free, get results for your client repeat and build yout portfolio until the market thinks you are worth something

Or 

Build your own blog or ecommerce store to gain experience and show what you capable of 

Its alot of hard work gd luck

  
You have two ways to represent yourself to a client.


2) Your proposal

  



&#x200B;

Also, if you can create a sample that's like what they are looking for (for example, if they need email marketing help for ecommerce sales, write an ecommerce sales letter) that provides value. Don't go crazy, just enough to show your skills.  


Doing that every proposal will sharpen your own digital marketing skills.  



If you aren't signing anything that states otherwise in contracts, do what you want! Good luck (:
Legally, if you din´t have to sign any "no competition clause" or something like that, then you are all set. Morally I wouldn´t do it, but it´s your call.
Are you using a CRM or any type of marketing automation software?
Ad exchange? DSP? Arbitrage? Syndication?


Digital marketing definitely works. 

I’d assume branding your store would be your best interest. 

You want your store and what you offer to stand out. 


I’d make sure your store is easily found on Google when searching businesses and don’t bother with Yelp. 

Yelp is a waste of money and doesn’t have your best interest in mind. 

Focus on your unique selling point and utilize this for advertising. 

Focus on branding your store, getting your name out.



—
Mike

PS: I’ll speak plainly here... Who gives a fxck if there’s a liquor store on every corner. Don’t play or fall in to the competition game. What matters most is your personal brand, your unique offer, and how you communicate that to the market. Ever wonder why some liquor stores do better then others? I can bet they’re doing some form of marketing also.
Being a liquor store I imagine tracking your conversions and ROI is going to be slightly different. 

You could run a Facebook ad campaign with a special discount offer, say 5% off any purchase if they quote a special code / word at the checkout. 

Now you’ll know which campaigns are performing best based on which codes are quoted.
Content marketing can be tied in to brand marketing. (Mainly for blogging or writing articles)

Brand copywriting and direct response would be the way to go. 

—
Mike
There are several ways you can track brick and mortar. Since this is a liquor store, promoting the consumption of alcohol on Social Media is treading in some tricky waters.

&#x200B;

I would use a system like Clover (or similar) to create a loyalty base. They have built in marketing options (like email and SMS) to draw back your customers in and maintain a loyalty (obviously without turning them into alcoholics haha).

&#x200B;

Also, Google MyBusiness will be your best friend here. If you give your current/new customers an incentive to leave reviews on your Google MyBusiness Listing, and you keep it up to date, you will see an increase in traffic. Keeping your website up to date and posting about new events or waiting lists on high end spirits/wines would be effective, which you could also incorporate into your Google MyBusiness listing. 

&#x200B;

Depending on your location, I would register with one of the delivery apps as well as google local business listing. That’s the 2 I would think that people commonly see on a daily basis.
Google ads will work the best for you, BUT it needs to be setup professionally.

And I mean professionally.


It depends on a publisher and type of ads.

&#x200B;

This is what you want:

* CPM - high awereness
* CPA - conversion

&#x200B;


* CPA - retargeting / brand keywords on search

&#x200B;

This is what you should look after:

* CPM - use independent adservering to check viewability rate, placement of your ads and format structure. What you would want is high viewability rates, higher share of premium banner formats (300x600, 970x250) and good websites
* CPC - monitor onsite traffic, use analytics and set events, check time on site and pages per session. Also use hotjar to monitor website and analytics events to monitor website for bot traffic (time on site and pps can be gamed). Also check conversion rates.
Depends on the goal of the campaign and how easily you can track the sale or acquistion. If you are advertising laundry detergent - maybe the user clicks the link and buys online or something, but maybe they just happen to try that laundry detergent the next time they are at the store.

Think of he ads for butter and other grocery items you might see during a youtube video. Nobody is clicking that video to go buy butter right then and there.

If simple brand // product awareness is what matters CPM is a good measurement.

There are certain conventions and best practices. If the goal is reach or branding with engaging visual, video, or audio than CPM is preferred. CPC is ideal for media types that need clicks for validation (like text ads). CPA is generally the realm of affiliate marketing or emerging (not fully trusted) media. 

If you’re working at a large agency or on a large camping it’s common to see all three models on one plan.



Ask in r/jobs and explain where you live and what are your experience.Also i would recommend you to keep doing freelancing with the job just make some limits as it will boost your earnings.
The role you should go for is Content writer or SEO executive but if you learn PPC & FB campaigns  you can go for Digital marketing executive (best paid).

Also make a customised C.V in which mention your previous work and clients you can add some reference of a big or good project you did in past and brother happy married life in future i would be needing marriage related tips.

You have good overall digital marketing skills, so you should have no problem applying for Digital Marketing Specialist / Manager roles which usually cover a range of DM skills from planning / strategy, execution (paid ad setup) etc. If you are you more interested in one area (eg SEO) then you can focus on a single stream and apply for SEO Specialist roles, for example.

I don't think you should aim for entry or "executive"  roles - if you've run full digital marketing campaigns from start to finish and you have 5+ years experience, you should be aiming higher. Take a look at some jobs on Linkedin and see where you stand.

&#x200B;

I don't have any specific advice really, good luck!
Event tracking with google tag manager, create event with any click with sign up button, then you will see result in google analytic in events section

&#x200B;

Ps on some WordPress themes, this can be a PITA 

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
GTM as people say - or in Google Analytics you can create a 'sign up' event that is triggered whenever your thank you for signing up page loads.


Good luck!
Go to udemy search you will see a course that suit your desire
I would definitely say start connecting (or following) the CMOs / digital marketing directors / social media marketing managers at some companies resonate with you and how they approach that topic. I think you would be surprised by how many, share amazing insight into the way they do things.

&#x200B;

and it doesnt get more real life than hearing it from the mouths of the folks who do it every day, rather than a book or professor.
Quicksprout has lots of great stuff
You'll get the most understanding from the training platforms give to advertisers. They'll literally tell you how to use the platform better than the average user and in many cases give case studies for campaign starting points.
Hello, online courses and by doing practice will make you expert in social media marketing go to Lynda or Udemy
What kind of survey? Are you targeting a specific audience?

What platform will you be using for your survey?
If it's very large, you'll want to give a reward for each person that participates in it.
Use typeform + remember to give some incentive
What is your purpose? This will help. You need to be pretty detailed to get the right answers.
Google forms! How large of a survey?
Who is your supervisor? Do they set the budget? 


Here's how I did it. 


I created a list of new marketing methods, tools, services, and we'd add 1 item every other week. 


Also don’t buy a course.



People switch to new industries all the time and I bet most of them would kill to be doing so at just 25 years old! That’s still really early and with tonnes of time to catch up. Don’t rush yourself, study the aforementioned resources as best you can and see where you can get experience. You’ll be able to get a job soon enough:)

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

The competition is fierce, they have years and years ahead of you, and will gladly starve both of you to 'win' the account. Gaining clients is harder than you think, and they pay drastically less (like 95% less) than the numbers you see thrown around on this sub. 

&#x200B;

RUN THE OTHER WAY






My company - NitroPay.com - is an example of the ad revenue optimization and ad tech portion. We work with SSPs and exchanges to deliver ads programmatically through header bidding. We have other tech that helps with reporting and ad quality. We do have some direct relationships with media agencies for direct ad buys - this is mostly to guarantee placements or create more custom solutions than a standard banner. 


Hope that helps. 
I would like to suggest you Integrate push Notifications in your website so that you can re-target your users who are coming to your website by sending relevant push notifications in regular intervals. If you send informative updates and news to your users it makes them to keep updated with your updates and you also get more valuable customers. Push notifications will reduce most of your marketing budget. You will get it with less price and more benefits. I hope this will help you.

Facebook Ads: make sure there’s a Facebook Pixel installed on the site to retarget visitors. Making sure you’re targeting and retargeting correctly is crucial. I believe Facebook Blueprint is the name of their free courses (gotta pay for the certification though) 

My agencies got a few free guides I can PM you if you’re interested, but as far as general advice just be analytical. Test different copy and creative combos, see what converts best.  Same with the platforms, just see what’s working well and allocate budget accordingly. 
 

Web design is one of the most competitive verticals for search and social IMHO. I’ve been seeing the best results with bleeding edge tactics like organic marketing on emerging platforms. More traditional google ppc and SEO has proven somewhat productive but quite expensive cost per customer acquisition in my experience. I’m recommending a strategy along the lines of “do the basics well and expect to get some customers through traditional search marketing but be sure to also invest in newer channels”.
There are several tools that you can use. Can't say which one is the best. Depends on what you like.

&#x200B;

However, here are a few to consider:

&#x200B;

2. Project Management tools: MS Project, Trello, Monday. Try the ones that offer free option and see which one you like.


&#x200B;

Hope that helps

Shashank

Hubspot, Tasks, and Excel. 
While you can use primary research tools and various other modern day analytical tools to track activities - let's face it, tracking offline marketing activities is much tougher. Example of offline marketing activities - Hoardings, Newspaper ads, Magazine ads, Posters, Direct Mailers, participation in trade fairs, exhibitions, etc. Unlike Online marketing where the data is readily available for analysis, in offline the biggest challenge is to find ways to gauge the campaign's effectiveness. 
Connect your site with Google analytics and use google docs. 
Focus on results and deliverables as much, if not more than what your responsibilities were. 
I found that I had more requests for in-person interviews when I specifically asked for ways they'd like to improve, and responded with personal work experiences/results that matched those situations. 



Talk about some special projects you worked on

In addition, as others mentioned, focus on results and deliverables. For example, don't only say that what you did, but mention what your work accomplished:

 \* Worked hand in hand with ad agency to create and execute native, display, streaming audio, video, search and paid social strategy. 

Faith on your self.

Be confident.

No Nervousness.

Then start describing your experience. Start from the very first point.point to point describe.then your recent achievement.

&#x200B;
Why you are important, not what you did.
Hello there, 

Greetings!!

&#x200B;

Digital Marketing is a good course if you have any future goal regarding JOB, FREELANCE or BUSINESS. Every course in DM is important and connected with each other. SEO & SMM both are important, first SEO is to be done in website while promoting your website using SMM.   
Both SEO & SMM are easier to practise and helpful for promoting your blog/website on the internet.  
I would definitely learn SMM. There are many agencies and in house companies hiring SMM experts. SEO is important for web developers. So, if you plan on developing websites in html5 I believe it’s obligatory to learn SEO. Otherwise, SMM will give you an edge and possibly lead to a profession.

In digital marketing the goal is to be knowledgeable of different platforms. There are three types of platforms (Social, Digital, and Search). Social platforms are: Facebook Ads, Snapchat Ads, Twitter Ads. In your case, digital platforms will be running YouTube or Display off Google Ads. Finally, the main search platform is Google Ads as well. But, bing and yahoo have their own search platforms as well.

Some very high level concepts for SMM to get you started. There are two main cost metrics (CPM and CPC.) CPM is cost per thousand impressions. CPC is cost per click. The main cost metric for social and digital platforms tend to be CPM (though, sometimes CPV cost per view is applicable). For search, CPC is the main cost metric since you (the advertiser) is only charged based on clicks.

Good luck! Enjoy the process.
SEO gives results after weeks and months and if you want instant results then go for SMM
Social Media Marketing will be a lot easier to learn.  
check ur messages
Seo and smm both are different 


- [/r/marketing] [Agency owners - how did you build your team? & please critique my plan.](https://www.reddit.com/r/marketing/comments/b2zzvf/agency_owners_how_did_you_build_your_team_please/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
What is the niche?


Secondly making that business a brand in the relevant industry should be your primary target. Focus on social media marketing and also market the products as a brand.
I'm not American so it might be different there. Isn't the point of an internship that you learn off someone experienced?

How are you an intern yet you're the only one who knows digital marketing?

&#x200B;
I'm trying to understand what it's about. I visited their site, not clear, something to do with videos.
I personally am in Florida so it's hard to speak on behalf of LA. From what I know, LA has a lot of great opportunities for digital marketing jobs. Starting looking and see what jobs are available that fit your skill sets. Work with a recruiter ... if you are lucky, the company may be willing to help you with relocation. 
May have something for you. Messaging ya

-Google Certifications
-HubSpot Certifications
-Listen to marketing podcasts like Neil Patels
-Consdering General Assembly course
-Or like you mention a bootcamp. There are also like 9 month courses from schools, but those can prob be more expensive.


Best of luck! 
It 100% percent depends who is running the bootcamp. More than likely you will end up with a bootcamp run by a fraud. To start, get any relevant Google Certifications and the Facebook Blueprint. Start networking today and signup for local marketing meetups, events, associations, luncheons etc. Talk to people and let everyone know what you are doing. You will find a lead on a company hiring and learn along the way.
Nothing matters as long as you know digital marketing. I'm a Engg. By education and never done an MBA after that. But, now i'm a marketing manager in 2 years of starting my career.

The certs should be enough. I never heard of a marketing bootcamp and having attended one would make a difference to me.
Sounds interesting. I'd like to get involved if possible. 
sent you an email
sent you an email
Sounds great would like to work with you
Just emailed you!
I was actually about to start a thread like this myself. I'm considering enrolling in a course in either digital marketing, or bookkeeping. I get the feeling that employment wise, bookkeeping is steady and stable. Digital marketing might be more versatile. I haven't been able to decide. I'm from Toronto and I'm trying to figure out which alternative is best suited to this city. 
I'll follow this thread. RemindMe! 1 day

&#x200B;

Failing that, why not keep doing what you're doing and look to find a client or two of your own that you can work on in the evenings/weekends. This will give a little bit of extra money but also it will start to build up a portfolio. If you can do this then after a while you'll have evidence of work to show potential future employers or you might even just decide that with a few more clients you could work for yourself instead. 

&#x200B;

It's the same crossroads that I'm at right now as well so it will be interesting to hear what you decide. 
Make it up. But prepared to explain how you got those numbers. 
Estimate and use percentages if you have a general idea and just don’t remember specific numbers. You can also still say ‘grew’ or ‘increased’, even if you don’t say by how much. As well as use words like ‘doubled’, etc. If you know anyone still working at those companies, see if they can look up the metrics for you.

It’s not perfect, but you’ve learned a valuable lesson about keeping a record of metrics and accomplishments in future positions.

As always, it depends on your businesses needs specifically. 


At the end of the day it should be based on your record keeping needs and size of your company 
We use Airtable at my agency. Free and paid plans. Really powerful and can be very client friendly if you choose to share it with then


The tools I've tried: 
Basecamp - it's good, but it wasn't for me. It's great if you are still using word docs and pdfs

Asana: cheap for your team size, but of a learning curve for the team - I've found this the hardest to implement for some reason

JIRA/confluence - great to use together, best for teams practicing agile (not being agile, but practising the methodology) 


My favourite? Notion. 
Notion is a wiki style note taking and task management app. I like that I can format docs in there, keep all the work in one place, and I love the lack of structure - we do dev, digital, design and automation - our tasks are Hella random and notion accounts for that. Also our team picked it up in a day
We use zoho projects. It works but took us a long time to figure it out.  I think there may be better stuff out there. 

1. Free access to clients and contractors (nearly eliminates the nightmare of email)
2. Integration - full G Suit tools, single sign-on via SAML, billing, invoicing, bookkeeping, timekeeping, and most importantly code repositories (I will give you a list if you are interested)
3. Project management tools -  workflows, project templating, worker metrics, forecasting (additional $$) and trackable milestones

We keep all our quality assurance lists in Asana templates then add them to a team projects as needed. We use the dashboard view to track all active projects both for milestones but also contractor and employee performance.

We use Asana and love it! (Facebook Marketing Agency) 

Started off using Trello a couple years back but it just wasn’t comprehensive enough. 


There are also several options out there made to serve specific niches! 

E.G. I’ve heard great things about Dubsado (project management, invoicing and more for creative teams)
We use Workamajig which has been great across the agency but especially on the studio/creative side of things. 
Asana all the way. Basecamp doesn't have some basic features like recurring events and people have been asking for them for years. 
Trello works for us. One board per client (usually). I come from a Project Management background which helps coaching the team to stick to Kanban fundamentals.

* Time Tracking
* Email Notifications
* File Sharing
* Shared Calendar
* Report Generation
* Invoice Generation


Is your email campaign eventually leading the leads to another landing page for registration or some sort of action? If yes, then do create an fb/ig custom audience campaign to direct users to that landing page. 

I don’t see how retargeting to a separate landing page would improve open rates of emails?

I think you need to test different subject lines and From: names.
Am not sure this fewture works on google ads. Confirm with fb coz thwy changed their rules the other day
I collect FB subscribers instead of emails. Here are the few benefits



\- Export PSIDs (subscribe id in FB) and create lookalike audience!

\- If there is a new ad for them, I don't need to create ad campaign and pay money, just send that ad in broadcast
Is it online or offline marketing or a mix?
Depends on what campaigns they run. Here’s broad some ideas:

Can you code at all? What languages? HTML CSS?
What CMS systems are you familiar with. WordPress?
What exposure have you had to SEO/PPC
Have you ever used a CRM or ESP before?

Do you recognise all of those acronyms? They might expect you to.
Also, if they don’t ask, you could flip those Qs back to them and ask if they’re expected of you.

Good luck fellow marketer.

(Source, marketing manager 10+yrs)
They will probably ask you if you have experience in: WordPress Management, Web Design, Ads conversion tracking, Facebook pixel, Display and Search network, google tag manager, graphic design, after effects, Facebook business manager, A/B testing, Instagram ads, Video creation, SEO and CRO. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Hope it helps
I think if you intend to make money from your website and it's not just a hobby, then it's worth buying the schema extension/ plugin. Otherwise, you can use the schema.org guides to write them manually.

Just do a calculation on how much money you would save if you were to write it manually versus how much money you save by not spending all your time trying to learn code. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

Hope it helps.

* Events
* Ratings
* Recipes
* Photos/Videos
* Article Information
* Product Information
* Addresses and Phone Numbers

**Following are the best and free schema plugins for WordPress Website:**

* WP Review 
* WP Product Review 
* All In One Schema.org Rich Snippets
Don't pay for it install markup (JSON-LD) from Kazuya Takami and you'll be fine.
I did an apprenticeship through GenM and was really lucky to get someone who knows a lot about the part of digital marketing that I really want to learn about. I worked remotely from Europe with someone in Canada, and now work on part-time basis for them (they employed me after my apprenticeship). After that I took a 2nd internship to give me experience in a different part of digital marketing and I’m also loving that one too. The first was a super small business with one person running it, the second is a proper company with lots of people on the team.  


I would highly recommend it. It’s literally work experience and free training with real businesses- the most hands on experience you can get! I would honestly recommend it to anyone - but be sure to know what your digital marketing goals are (what you want to learn  and where you want to specialise) and that’ll help you find the right mentor. 

It shows you some basic concepts supplemented by videos and “quizzes” at the end of each module, and each time you finish a section (SEO, Social Media, etc) you get a badge on your profile for the companies on the website to see. You can get hired through there too
[deleted]
Just be wary of certain people trying to take advantage of your work. Some will just have you so that you can teach them everything you know. It is free though and if you complete 4 internships (3 months each), you can become a freelancer and get gigs that pay pretty well
As long as you are willing to start at the bottom, you should be fine. 

You would likely not be entering as a Manager, however not having a degree shouldn’t hinder your progression if you start as a Social Exec or similar. 

In the digital marketing realm, I think certifications matter more than degrees. For example, become Google Certified, and pursue some other similar certifications. Social Media marketing requires knowledge of the platforms, a willingness to stay up to date with the latest trends, some design skills, and some advertising knowledge. Online courses will likely be enough for most employers at the entry level. 
As long as you have the experience and guts, you should be fine.

Larger companies need filters, even if they’re superficial. Otherwise, it’ll be impossible to comb through the hundreds of applications. 
You can use Instagram as well as Facebook fir running those ads. Alongside create as much content you can, blog posts, quora answers, anything putting your stuff out there for the world to see. 

Is having an Instagram with low followers and a blog the only things you have in your portfolio? Because most companies don't hire 1 person to run an Instagram (unless it's a huge company).. They expect that to be apart of your skills set. There is so, so many moving pieces within digital marketing, and with Instagram and a blog being both very low level skills inside the industry, I feel like it will be very unlikely to land a job with that being the majority of your skill set.

Nope 

Data Studio gives you the ability to create and share "live" dashboards and gives clients the ability to poke around if you apply filters (change dates, devices, etc.). It also has some pre-built reporting templates you can use to get up and running quickly! 
Depending on the size account of the client, you can just screen grab sections of importance then put that in your report. Some clients get a lot of value from just that much.
Dashthis is a really sweet reporting tool! 
Consider create landing pages in WordPress or even better Adobe Xd.

&#x200B;

Hope it helps.

What you're currently doing is great because it's giving you practical knowledge and experience that hiring managers are looking for and which will most likely be your responsibilities on the job. 

Still, if you're looking to expand your knowledge through a course and credible certification, I reccomend Udacity, Coursera, AMA or CMA if you're in Canada.
Definitely start learning about other social media channels because you obviously lean to it and it will be easier to understand other platforms for you then for other individuals.

What is your niche on YouTube?

&#x200B;

I personally finished my Bachelor for that reason.
One of the issues is that not many really understand the benefits of seo. They still see it as an option.
However, given the digital world we live in, i can suggest that you create a portfolio with the most successful YouTube videos of yours and show your skills using those.
If a business identifies your skills, you'll have more say in marketing yourself.
Cheers
Shashank 

You say things like:



A highly rated pool company in south Florida.

Just lay it out there, clients know the games. As long as you can provide a few references if really prodded, and the statements are factual  you’re set.
You could use an individual’s first name and their job title if the industry isn’t important. It’s a good way for folks to identify with others in a similar position. 
Note: if you want to use the testimonials for SEO purposes then do remember that you will have to acquire them via a third party system in order for Google to consider them. 


&#x200B;

Hope it helps
Some of our clients are also not willing to let us disclose their company name when we write case studies or testimonials. What I did was, instead of mentioning their brand directly, I just described their company, i.e. what industry, size, their USP -- i think these details are compelling enough for the audience to understand the case study or the context of the testimonial
A little tip that I tried and has worked well on some: Set your retargeting pixel to fire AFTER the visitors has already spent 5 or 10 seconds. By doing this, you'll be creating a retargeting list that is already more engaged than the standard one which includes retargeting people that bounced right away and barely viewed the site.
It depends on what you offer and your objective. There is never a 1-size-fits all. You have to adjust plans based on your distinct needs. 

So give some background on your business and I should be able to help. 

-Business Development & Marketing consultant. 
If you are interested in "cheap" traffic, then go with Facebook Ads.
Without knowing anything about your business, I wouldn't venture to offer a direct answer to that question.

I would suggest first, you need to determine your customer avatar(s). Only then (if done properly), will you have a better idea of which channels to use (ie. Google Ads or FB Ads or both).

Generally, my strategy with clients is to use multiple channels (so, could be Google Ads and FB Ads + content marketing strategy working synergistically together vs channels working in silos).
It all depends on the investment amount you are ready to spend. Google Ads require high investment and also experience to make the ads work. The quality of your ad and website content matter greatly when it comes to ad bidding. 

Even Facebook ads give you a deeper insight into the social behavior of your audience and also allows you to grow a social community around your business. 

But since every business is different, it depends on the nature of business, which ads will work for it.
Just remember that in Google Ads you are targeting people who are looking for specific thing/service, while in Facebook Ads you are showing ads to people who might be interested in your product because they meet audience requirements - but it doesn't mean they are looking for that now.   


 Take one step back from this.

What do you sell? If you sell a need it now service or product, Google ads. Facebook will be pretty hit and miss. 

If it's something people would buy on a whim or not really know about, then Facebook.

If it's something people search for but would also be interested if they came across it, then both.

Think of it this way. I need it now products and services are difficult to sell on Facebook. Google ads all the way. Ie emergency electrician.

General consumer products work on either as people will both search for things like furniture but also check new stuff out they come across on Facebook and Instagram.

They both have their nuances though. And without knowing what you sell to who... It's hard to give a concrete answer. Not sure why people ask vague questions though.... 🤔 
They both have pros and cons I suggest you consult with a PPC expert.
I've recently done a small test on facebook ads, the guaranteed numbers look very high but the engagement of your audience can be very small. I had a 2.4% engagement rate on a small ad.

&#x200B;

It really depends on your target audience, are they active on Facebook?
If you have low budget go with Facebook
Depends on your needs but I personally would like to go for Facebook because, it clubs Instagram with it. Instagram is awesome for ads.. second only to Reddit 
Google trends?

If anyone has a better system please share.

EDIT:

For trending topics you need to find the sources that provide this info and add to a board. 
Google trends, google alerts? 
buzzsumo ;-)

&#x200B;

Some Instagram automation tools don't get you banned. I've found some android apps that look kind of sketchy but have done the best for me. Only about $25/month to use for 5 accounts - lets you do auto like, auto follow, auto unfollow, auto dm, auto comment, and so on.
Grab a copy of The Robb Report (magazine) and see what is being advertised. This is if you are referring to the ultra wealthy 

\--> Affluent + wealthy men: Golf, boating, sailing, polo, horse racing, target  men who go to Ascot in the UK or the Kentucky Derby in the US, men who like luxe watches like Patek Philippe, Rolex, Audemars Piguet. Target men who own private jets or who follow private jet companies like Dassault and Bombardier, luxury cars etc

\--> Affluent + wealthy women: Target women who follow luxury brands like LV, Gucci, Chanel. Target haute couture as an interest, target luxury jewellery houses like Cartier and Boucheron. If you are in the US, target women who like luxe shopping destinations like Bal Harbour in Florida or Rodeo Drive in Cali. 

Think of it via interests then target from there
Good strategy I've had success with luxury brands in the past.


Then use Shopping, RLSA on competitive keywords in search and remarket with your DSP effectively.
Are you limited to just looking for keywords, or can you target demographically? Many platforms (Google, Facebook, Twitter, etc) allow you to target by income. Another option could be geo-targeting your ads to run in high-income zipcodes.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/DigitalMarketing) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Wordspace with Woocommerce. It might not be as out of the box you need. 

If you care less about SEO, Squarespace has an easy setup with Memberspace.
This is exactly. Exactly. What clickfunnels does. 
This is quite confusing but very simple question Here are the explanation of your question. There are mainly **4** types of backlinks ***rel=" Type of Link Nofollow, Noreferrer, Dofollow, and Nofollow "***. So for all of these here are the details.

**Tip:** By Default all the links are Dofollow.

>**Backlink/Link/Anchor:** <a href="[https://www.reddit.com](https://www.reddit.com)" rel="noreferrer">Click here for more info</a>

**Nofollow:** No link juice pass, 

**No referrer:** In short, the Noreferrer tag hides referrer information when the link is clicked. 


**Dofollow/External:** This is everybody knows. this type of links pass the link juice, and in another hand, we can say that you are trusting a destination site for particular information.


&#x200B;

Thanks
I would say moving to another country and trying to work in marketing will pose an extra difficulty. You may live in what you think is a crappy country, but unlike say Spain you are part of that culture and have a higher chance to come up with creative solutions to sell online/offline. When moving to another country it takes several years to adapt, learn how to blend in and fit the culture, understand the mentality and trends. Those years will feel way harder than living in the crappiest of countries.  
In general, if you want to find a job you have to work on a set of hard skills in your CV. Education can help you achieve that, but people won't hire you just because you have a diploma. Additional soft skills make you a more versatile candidate. I suggest you research what those things are, try to analyze yourself in terms what hard skill you have and what skills can you achieve. 
[deleted]
In the era of digital world, digital marketing is the formost choice of businessmen. So, you don't have to be worried about getting jobs, rather you can run your own business on digital marketing or you can earn money doing freelance services at home. 
You always can work remote. Or advertise yourself (your company) on wix. Also you could work in freelancer platforms. There is variety of jobs and ways to reach job. You just have to imagine how your work looks like.   


I know so many people living in Bali or thailand and working on computer 4 hours per day. Those countries are cheep. So live quality and salary ratio 5 stars.   
  
Content is the key. Analyze on your own. No one has figured Internet behavior out. (;
Easy.

Just go into the post analytics and you will be able to see exactly where they came from.

Good question. 

I usually browse the posts in thumbnail format, and if the post looks good enough for me to click on the thumbnail & open up the picture, I usually consider the piece of content to be good & attractive. 

BTW, I manage a bunch of camera & filmmaking related accounts on Instagram. 

Hashtags also play an important role in helping the content go viral. 

Use this tool called Metricool. Sign up & it'll give you the insights of your posts & the how effective were the hashtags with exact numbers. 

Hope that helped :)
Keep good content and relevant hashtags in your post. The more tags, the better. Photos with more tags have been proven to get more likes. 


If your post appears in the Explore Page, then they are getting viral for sure.

With the help of insight and analytics, you can reach up to maximum followers.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
  

I think you can analyze the Audience. You can use Owlmetrics to quickly understand what kind of content performs well with your audience. 
  

You can refer to a brand name in your novel. Like, any character using any particular brand then its fine. 
They follow hashtags you used in your post.
Engagement + timing + momentum ?
Good luck?
Boost insta only post through insta app. For that you’ll have to link up your fb admnager with your insta handle. Then select insta only ad placement and boost. Hope this helps.
It should happen automatically. Google "scans" for aggregate review websites. I believe there is a minimum amount of reviews before it shows. Maybe 10? 

You can Google it and find the answer as your not the first person to ask this.
You can't request  Google to display Facebook or Yelp ratings. It will come automatically. Get some genuine customer reviews and wait for some time. 

It will come :)
You will not learn specific tools in your degree. That's not what an MSc is about.



Start a blog or a website around your hobby. Work on it, promote it, run a facebook page related to it, etc etc... Google ads gives you free £80 credit or something, use that. Having something to show will be better than just saying you have an MSc and you know the tools.
I would get as familiar with tools like Facebook Insight, Google Analytics, LinkedIn Analytics, etc etc. Just so you're not scrambling when you land a job. 

Software like HubSpot. At least have an understanding of them. For the job you'll be interviewing for, think of what KPIs would be important to reach certain goals. (When you interview, ask them what their short and long term goals will be (3-6 months, 1-3 years). When you're doing practice campaigns, how are you planning them? What are you micro and macro conversions. 

&#x200B;

These are pretty generic because every company is different and will have different metrics to follow, but I'm sure when you graduate you'll have a great enough understanding how to start and training will help. I work for a VERY niche company, they didn't really know anything about DM, so having knowledge of the company and using basic DM knowledge they were overly impressed, you'll probably have a similar experience. I'm sure you'll be fine!
If you have the means, create an affiliate blog and get it to rank for target keywords along with optimizing it both on- and off-site. /r/JustStart is a good place to learn more about the process but as others have stated, practical, real-world knowledge will take you farther than schooling.
Start working. Practical education is real education. Universities are waste of time. You will learn more in a 6 months than entire period of university. 
Having one source of truth is important. If you report using each individual platform, you will over-report conversions because the users of each individual channel are not only using that channel when they browse the internet and therefore could be touched by multiple ads from your company. If you use platform conversion numbers, there is a chance some of those conversions are also being counted by other platforms.

Example: say a customer clicked on a search ad with a 7 day conversion window in Google Ads, didn’t buy anything and then came back 2 days later when they clicked on a FB ad and purchased. If you use platform reporting both of those are considered conversions. 

If you use google analytics as your source of truth then GA attributes the sale (likely, if attribution settings are the default) to the last channel they touched. Meaning you would know how many individual sales / conversions happened.


Hope this helps.
Google Analytics.. Period. I work in a law firm, so the necessary data may be different in terms of what you're analyzing, but I love GA. 

That's in addition to often times setting up goals/conversion KPIs because we often see no goals or poorly configured.

Basically if you're optimizing for a conversion and you've got it dialed in you technically don't care about the costs of impressions or clicks if CPA and true ROAS is being measured. Indeed if you are optimized in retargeting you might be able to bid MORE for an individual visitor because you know they're higher value.


Digital marketing should all work together and each campaign gives the others lift. The data should ideally reinforce the other platforms and provide strategic insight. Then you can get into the advanced programmatic products like connected TV, connected audio and native. 

ESPECIALLY if it's all being run internally.
I have a follow-up about this.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

I think it's better to have a consistent source since you can't really trust any individual one. We know that the numbers are being manipulated by each, so having them on one at least let's them be manipulated in the same way so you're not comparing apples to oranges.

GA is probably the best way to do this, and it integrates nicely with Tag Manager which is really powerful for tracking site use.
Go to local marketing meetups or association events. Ask around and you will find something. 

Hey, I'm a 4 years programmer and all I could tell you is this;

1: Mentor is expensive. Even if you found out, no one would teach or carry you to the peak of the mountain for free. I found this the hard way and that even if this mentor were legit, you'll still have to pay an "x" amount to get things started. 

2: Google is your best friend. Like seriously. Even when I got stuck in coding or whatsoever that is related to programming - (I googled, and found my solutions there, no mentor or whatsoever lol). Google is like everyone's best friend/mentor. If you know how to dig, you'll get the finest gem on the internet.


4: Don't get mixed up between Digital Marketing versus Content Marketing. It's a 2 different story. So always remember this.

It will be tumblr
  

Do not use Yext. It's a lifetime subscription or they pull your citations. Use Whitespark for Local SEO software. They are great.
check out Uberall, screw Yext
Yext is pretty pointless. It's better to find listing sites manually, or use services like SEMRush, whitespark, or SEO Powersuite.


Look at who the customer is that you want to serve. For example, if your focus is on small businesses or e-commerce, then most of their monthly budget goes to SEO, social media marketing (organic, not paid) with some Facebook marketing. 

If your focus is on local, main street businesses, then you should add in Yelp, Google My Business, local SEO etc. 

If your focus is professional services, like accountants etc. then yes, lead gen, content marketing etc. come into play.
Digital Marketing is a very wide topic. I'd suggest you focus on specialising in any one service and then go from there.

Some services you could offer clients:

1. SEO - Search Engine Optimization
2. Web Design
3. PPC Adwords Management
4. Social Media Management
5. App Development
6. Content Writing  Services
7. Online Reputation Management


Do you mean post an article that references your business, and then put budget behind it? 

I wouldn’t put too much budget behind it because you always want people coming to your own website rather than someone else’s. Perhaps create a blog post on your own website with the same information, with a link to the original article and put budget on that. 

Then if you’ve setup Facebook pixel, you can at least re-target these potential customers afterwards rather than just sending them to a news website and hoping for the best 

Good luck! 
There's no right or wrong. But people may end up clicking the link to Guardian instead of you
I don't believe you can boost that post type. 
I think your starting point if $80k/year full time is alright...  I’d recommend getting someone local so it’s easier to collaborate.  Like anything else in the world, you are going to get what you pay for.  

I can tell you that whoever you hire is going to end up doing more than those 4 points you laid out.  
Where are you based out of? 80k in rural PA is a lot different than 80k in NYC.
Cut the salary and offer some of your profits.. let's say that you offer  a commission. That way your fella will be motivated to really help you. 
Yeah, consider a freelance consultant for this expectation. It will lower your initial costs and potentially allow for a relationship to grow.

depends if you charge for your hours or your expertise?

If you charge for hours then you can ONLY ever earn so much as you're limiting your working scope.
Anything from $1.5 - $2k. 

You're never going to be on top of technology, it moves too fast.

I went to school for Civil Engineering, and found a problem solving mindset is more valuable than anything you memorize or read in textbooks during college. The algorithms change on a daily basis, so the best way to learn is by doing and developing pattern recognition based on the analytics you are capturing for all efforts and campaigns. 

It depends of what you're looking up as specialization. If you wanna be a Data Specialist, a tech background is more helpful. Content Specialist? Maybe Journalism be more proper. Do you wanna be a Digital Marketing Manager, managing a team and making business decisions? So, I think Business Administration degree might be the right choice.
Making it a hobby to maintain a website, social media accnts & a newsletter database is a great way to learn about different fields of digital marketing, then when you find one area that really sparks your curiosity, like SEO or Data Analytics, dive into that rabbit hole.

Find a CMS (content management system). Learn to upload content on your own, creating SEO friendly pages. Check out WPBeginner. Good site if WordPress is your choice of CMS.

Link it to Google and go trough all the latest tutorials and resources. Analytics, Ads, Tag Manager and Search Console are good places to start.

Try selling ad space or a product/service/subscription. 

Create a newsletter and automate the delivery process. Mailchimp is free up to a certain number of people.

Use a social media planner like Hootsuite or the free Buffer.

Create and schedule content for a month, or two. Press play.


I feel that could be a semester's worth of courses to go through with a class.



Hi, 



Hope this helps

Thanks
A degree is useful but with the fast changing pace of markeing (especially digital marketing) you neet to keep up with the developments.  A degree cannot teach you everything and tell you how to proceed in the different scenarios you come across in your everytday work.  This can only be learnt in a practical way while on the job (just like driving).

Whether it's testing JavaScript events firing for retargeting pixels, doing SEO initiatives that include things like mobile responsiveness or page size/speed, even just debugging a CRM workflow can be made way easier with a little technical knowledge.


Best of luck!
Yes. I have a background in IT and easily transitioned into SEO. I previously worked as a front-end developer and became more interested in traffic/lead gen and eventually trasntioned into a full time SEO role. UI/UX is very important for SEO and knowledge of HTML/CSS/JS can get you very far. Technical SEO pays very well.

Most of the CS or Engineering people I know in the industry work in depth on analytics and/or CRM/DMS tools, or they code. 

E-commerce development roles eventually led to managing marketing campaigns with multiple startups, to VP Marketing & Tech. at current larger organization. There is a synergy between all sides of e-commerce, so if you're interested in learning more toward the CMO vs. CTO side, it's definitely possible (and in my personal career, more rewarding for me long term. In any case, good to wear and learn multiple hats only will elevate your value.

Yes, don't get hung up on titles thinking you only do one thing or another. In some cases, the digital person would be in charge of social planning, posting, and advertising. It just depends on the company structure and the actual job duties.
Definitely. But be very careful about the jobs - there is a difference between companies taking social serious and those that just want an intern (or a junior being paid intern level wages) running their facebook.
Sign up for Google Partners and take the AdWords certification course. 

You’ll learn their ads platform & earn a certification, which you can leverage to get clients or on a job resume. 
find free udemy courses . Study SMO, SEM, SEO, Analytics and you'll be solid. You could pursue a nano degree on udemy but there are plenty of free resources out there. 
Digital marketing is broad discipline with many areas of specialization, e.g email marketing, paid search, social media, paid social, display advertising, programmatic, analytics, SEO, conversion rate optimization, content... If you’re fortunate to work for a startup with a budget to support, learn all of these things and more then pick an area to specialize in. 

Learn some SQL, HTML/CSS, javascript. You don’t need to be a programmer but having some knowledge will make you a much stronger digital marketer. 
Udacity is another source as well, but you could find and study all the information yourself for free if you surf the web a little bit
You need a good tool for collecting emails and sending emails to your prospect so it will go to their inbox without going into the spam folder or junk. A lot of digital marketers use autoresponders to help collect emails and schedule times to send out emails during certain times or days. It is a really good way if you are going to create content like video tutorials, ebooks, or other information. It is good to have to continue promoting your brand or your service you are providing. Keeping them up to date with what you are doing if you want to notify them with a new blog post or a news. 

There are a few good Autoresponders out their, but the monthly fee really bits in your budget. Also, they have caps depending on the type of business or amount of emails you are reaching. I did come across a autoresponder that is really good for digital marketing and does the same as the others like Aweber, Get Response, and others. 

In the US you cant use FB to advertise treatment centers without LegitScript clearance. Technically you can but it's against their TOS to circumvent them on either FB or Google. Bing is our market right now.
Google 'Trailhead Pardot'
Many of the helpful guides are protected until you have an account to log-in. At least this was the case about a year ago. 
Also depends on demo. If your selling diabetes testing supplies you’ll spend more on traditional TV. iPhone accessories is probably 100% digital marketing.
Fitness, supplements, weight loss brands should factor up to 20% of revenue to be spent on ads due to the sheer competition 


Agreed to the previous comment. I think they are also testing your research skills. On top of that, I don’t think they restrict you from asking questions! 
I've also had to do similar things before. It's usually a good sign: someone in that company thinks you're worth taking the extra time and energy to look at that calendar that you're going to put together. 


This is a cool tool, thanks for sharing.  I have a coupe of questions though:

* How reliable is that data?

Show up early, do good work, make sure your boss knows your name and you’re a solid team member.

Go in on in agency opportunities to get around the leadership group.

Always keep an ear to the ground on the job market. After 2 years you’re probably underpaid.
Without sounding to obvious, experience trumps all - the more experience you have, the higher up the salary ladder you'll climb.

£25-30k would be normal for entry level marketing roles, with 2 years experience you could/should be aiming for closer to £30k. Have you had a pay review in work? That's the easiest way to jump up a few K without doing to much. Once you have 3 or 4 years experience, you should be looking at £30-50k+.

Generally speaking, the easiest way to get an increase in salary is by changing roles / company and getting a better job with a better pay package. Internal promotions with a substantial salary jump would be harder to achieve.

Qualifications - consider doing a masters or other post grad certs in things like digital strategy, data analytics etc - this is currently where the money is. Digital resources, have a look on this subreddit, there are a ton of good posts on what you can do in your spare time to upskill.

TLDR: keep working hard, get experience, and look what else is on offer in terms of jobs.
By Showing Your Past Work.

and for that you can work as a freelancer. It is highly profitable.
What I have learned and am currently doing is a New Age Consultant regarding a niche and in my case possibly yours is to provide a  niched down service using marketing/ads to find customers/clients. Sales is definitely a key and charge monthly plus adspend. You will soon scale to your annual in a month. Other words called a freelancer. Hope that stirs some thoughts.

What is the goal of the ad though? Awareness of the coffee shop?
One thing you could consider is giving people who like your page a special code for like 50% off the coffee. It would prove to your client that you’re driving traffic into the store because the customer would mention some secret code you give them on Facebook.

You can think of lots of permutations of this but the pin to is to get attribution for your work.
If you’re running an engagement ad, watch the engagement metric... lol



FB's help section lists out the best KPIs for each goal type. For you, yeah engagements and cost per engagements.
Use the Ads Reporting tab if you haven't already - great for digging deep into each campaigns success!
Hi there

Mostly in digital ads, need to be analysed like,  


CVR = conversion rate = after clicking ads and then how many people buy or look though your product or content

blur blur.... Google it some digital marketing terms. get use to it, and then you can see what you have to see :D

&#x200B;
Depends on your objective. Is it to drive sales - Then CPA. Is it to generale leads - Then CPL.
Is it for awareness - Then CTR, might also include CPL
\+SEMRUsh+Spyfu+Alexa. com/siteinfo+SimilarWeb = Avg Visitor
Don't ow  it as in it belongs to a client, or don't own it as in you don't know who is affiliated to it at all?




So if I were you focus on Facebook Ads, Facebook insight and Facebook Analytic or Google Adwords, master either one first. And I usually suggest learning Facebook Ads first.

Then, monitor your traffic and run for a month, then u can have historic data to work with where u can project the future

grab screen caps of your most popular posts - showing the engagement. Show campaigns you made, info graphics etc

then download some stats from each platform's analytics or from Google analytics showing social traffic, focus on each day if you have to - show traffic, new visitors, bounce rates, dwell time.


You can always mention the FB page and download the statistics of each campaign you made. 




Actually i'm using both. There's some improvements (like the copy paste function) but some stuff just seems... Off with the new design

Make sure ya don’t have any non compete issues!  Focusing on any specialities or just offering everything? 
Build your personal brand, create a website, generate traffic, use your experience to figure this out. Use a blog to detail your experiences and what you've learned so far. 

This will mean more for you and to prospective businesses. 

I'm going to play devil's advocate. Certifications for a recent college grad show interest and may put you a a little bit above the competition. Twitter Flight School is a good one to show some social. People telling you to gain experience need to realize that is 1000x easier said that done. Of course any freelance work is a great opportunity, but there are thousands of entry level positions in some areas. Same goes with blogging. Writing a meaningful blog at this stage is quite difficult, and honestly, most people will not be very interested in what you have to say at this stage. 
It's not specifically for automation, but if you want deeper insights into your data, look at Tableau.  I started using it late last year and it's simply incredible how it parses your data.  
I use Google Sheets through a Zapier integration. All the power of a spreadsheet and more so I never have to worry about platform limitations. 
Hi there! I would recommend DashThis, there's a lot of good reviews on G2Crowd, even some tutorials on youtube. Let me know if you like it! :)
[removed]
There are a bunch of tools that can help you. If you want a set-it-and forget it approach check out recurpost. Otherwise, Buffer is fine too. 
I love Sprout Social. You can cross post to Twitter, FB, and Insta (kinda). Schedule your posts ahead of time and be plugged into FB’s API to see all kinds of data. I also love it bc I manage a ton of Ads and I can moderate and comment on my paid ads too. 

Zapier has a great integration with Slack, we use it in a variety of ways. Depends upon what you exactly wanna do. 
!remindme 1 week
I work in a market with a similar customer base (B2B sales primarily to engineers) and here is my advice to you.




I try and follow all of the main “best practices” for sites these days and I rank well in my niche and have steady year/year growth in search results and very good sales growth.

Beyond that, you could always retarget to these same people who land on your site using desktop-only ads, a lot of platforms and social media sites let you specify your ads be served to specific device types.

Set mobile device adjustments at the campaign level in adwords at - 100%
My advice about the images is that if you are not sure where these images come from and you don't know the license I would avid them. There are ton of websites that offer free images that you can use to post it on Instagram. Also it is a good idea to take some of your own images and post it. Maybe create some graphics with a tool like Canva. For free images you can use Google advanced image search where you can tell Google to search for images that are free to use for commercial use. 

If you do not know the license of an image, it is safe to assume somebody holds the copyright and has not allowed its use. There are a ton of places you can find free images; Pexels is one example. You can also do a CC license search on Flickr or 500px.

I wouldn’t waste your time. Getty Images is one of the most ruthless of all the license holders. They won’t hesitate to sue you. There are too many free resources out there to even waste your time considering this idea. 
Honestly, I can’t see why you wouldn’t make at least some money with digital marketing in your first month. I mean if you’re looking to just get started then post some ads on your local Craigslist and renew the ad every 2 days. Or post a gig on Fiverr. You can even make an account on Upwork and respond to other people posting gigs.

The biggest barrier you’ll face is a.) your own self doubts and b.) your inability to progress because you’ll feel uncomfortable as you change. 

Learn to be comfortable being uncomfortable.
2 month. Depending on what you want to do, I'd go for an Online Congress model.

We built an instant expert status in our field and are now considered the biggest expert in our topic in the country. Also, we built a list of 9k+ followers/leads, of which 600+ have now bought our product, which made us 40k+ (That's EUR)

We're now working on the second product (online-course on implementing the learning from the congress) and are launching it right now to the list. Day 2 of 6 and we're at 5k+.

1. Basically, you invite loads of people that have knowledge about the topic to an interview via Skype/Zoom and interview them for 30-120 minutes. Also, you ask themfor some kind of bonus material/course/ebook/freebee to give the viewers.

2. You build an optin-page on which people interested in the topic sign up to watch the interviews for free for 24h. (for example: 10 day congress, 2 interviews per day and you can watch the 2 interviews only on the day they're released)


4. ???


Have fun implementing. Also, I love helping, so questions are very welcome :)
[deleted]
Oh the irony.
[deleted]
There's no one strategy. It really depends on your skill set, what you have to offer and who you can access. But one tip, start local. There's got to be a nearby gym, restaurant, salon or mom and pop store that could use your help. Reach out to all of them (the ones you've been to before of course) and offer to help.

If you have the time and resources, get one client for free so you can build a portfolio, then use that client to get other clients. 

Good luck!
Market yourself, perhaps digitally? 
Look for local startups, check if they have an online presence. If they lack one, boom, you got your first potential client .
Start networking. You'll get work through who you know. Take a lot of coffee meetings! Meet 3 new people from LinkedIn a week. 
I have seen videos about getting client through yelp, I didn’t understand that , anybody having any clue ??
Haha, i remember when i was in your position, when we think that marketing other people products is easy because is a b2c, and the marketing agency is a b2b, at the end of the day it's all Marketing and Sales, and b2c, and b2b = people, i highly recommend learning how to approach business and lead sourcing, if you're not good at closing clients, i have a video where i share a strategy that i used to scale my agency, if you're interested DM me and i'll send you the link :) 
Build yourself a great website. Reach out to friends to see if your type of services would be needed at their places of business. Approach a small business. Go to lots of networking events. 

Great work with one or two initial clients will bring more.
So you're apparently a marketing guy, but you cannot market your own business, or have no ideas.

Fucking hell mate, seriously just give up, you're an amateur.
Hi, are you sorted with an answer for this dilemma? I work as a digital marketer at an Inbound Marketing company and we are constantly are creating, refining and updating our buyer personas for our clients, we get this question a lot so we wrote a summary about creating them, in simple terms there are 8 steps which you can read about here: https://ukuinbound.com/8-steps-to-creating-a-kick-ass-buyer-persona/ 


Second what Cyborg23 has said. Digital marketing will always be in demand. The beauty of it is that you can learn the skill completely through online courses and do it remotely.

For SEO, take a Google AdWords and Analytics course, then find a client who would like you to manage their SEO rankings. 

Other courses you can take are Facebook Blueprint, Hubspot.

Since you noted that you are an electrician — you could possibly do electric consulting or design PCB remotely. 

Another thing that I’ve done to gain side money is actually research/market surveys found on Craigslist. If you live in a techie area or near a University, these places are always doing consumer studies, usually an hour long in exchange for an avg of $50-100 

You will also gain a very good understanding of the google suite of products practicing with google Data Studio, which is something that agencies want.
[deleted]
Go for Social media Marketing, its creative and fun!

* webdesign
* Copy writing
* graphic design(logos, flyers, business cards, stationary etc)

8 hours a day of learning and doing, learning and practicing, you'll be good enough in a week tops to sell your services to people that need them.

take the other window or program or word writer, whatever the task you need to do

and do it step by step for 16 to 18 hours a day

watch the youtube video for 30 seconds, 

go to the program, web site design, graphic desinger, etc w.e you choose to do 

do that exact action for 30 seconds

back and forth back and forth

learning through action, learning through experience

you'll be able to sell whatever skill you learned as a service in one week 

stay connected keep me updated on your progress. and we can work together and help you build that location based freedom income


Anyway, learn the basics of digital marketing then get good at something that is not widespread. Adwords, SEO, Facebook management, etc are all widespread. Rather try and go into the data side of things and get good at the 'smaller' tools (i.e the tools most digital marketers know about but aren't particularly good at using). Some examples of this would be Google Data Studio, Google Tag Manager and Google Optimize.

If you're trying to work as a freelancer, the biggest thing you'll need to learn is how to sell yourself and build relationships with clients. 






Regarding to your question, freelance as much as you can. 
Your 100&#37; right, all the best for your future agency.
Google gives charities free AdWords credit every month. Volunteer a few hrs a week to do DM for a local charity or two. 
Hoping to see some great responses to this post. I am in a similar position. 

Kind of the paradox of all jobs.

Love the charity idea.
I started out creating a crappy WordPress website for my favorite hobby and then just created an AdWords campaign directing people to it. After that I talked to a few small businesses in my area and offered my services for free and yeah that's about it.
Unfortunately, the Google certificates don't mean anything, unless, as you said you get real world experience. One of the recommendations in this thread pointed out that charities are a good place to start as they are given a grant account, with google credits to spend (it is quite a bit limited, but a good learning ground).

I would definitely try reaching out to any charity with a website and offering to help them up setting up their account AdWords grant account or helping managing it. 

Once you're in, I would try and get as much experience as possible in a short amount of time, i.e. setting up you new campaigns, creating new ads to improve their quality score, create more extensions, etc. 

The good thing with these accounts is that you can't fuck it up haha
You just need little guidance from someone who has had previous experience and you need some support as to how you can practice and hone your skills. With a proper plan it’s very easy. 


Cheers,

KC
Do pro-bono work for a few non-profits and document everything to build case studies and testimonials.
You asked, "What should I work on to be able to have a junior position at an agency?"

At this point, you will need to start building a portfolio of work. So make note of digital marketing work you've done for a company, a non-profit organization, an internship or your own products you're selling. Basically look at job posting for a junior position and work to get the listed skills on that job posting. 

You asked, "What kind of position should I look for based on my certifications?"


So, read guides and watch some carefully selected videos for different aspects of digital marketing. So for SEO, Moz guide is good and Neil Patel quicksprout guide on online marketing is good as well for digital marketing in general. Brad Geddes AdWords book, WordStream, Klientboost, Paid Search Podcast and Reddit PPC are great starting points for AdWords. 

The main thing is implementing what you're learning, chronicling it and having your resume/cv reflect your work along with your portfolio. 
I actually got started in marketing by doing an entry level cold calling position, then moving into content marketing, marketing operations, and now working as a digital marketer/email strategist. The last three seem to be very tied to paid media and SEO and are great jumping off points for any of the above. If you can find entry level in any of these, you will gain excellent experience and skills that can be applied to other marketing jobs, and usually companies are comfortable with people moving laterally to a more desired position once you’ve found what interest you, or will let you pick up responsibilities that might interest you but aren’t quite the role. That’s how I’ve made my way around marketing- there’s always so much to learn that is applicable, you can’t really go wrong.

I’ve found if you’re AdWords certified then that’s a huge bonus. If you can code HTML or CSS that’s always significant. You can also set up Facebook ads for yourself fairly cheaply and that would give you experience and a portfolio. 

The Moz SEO guide is an awesome place to start. But as other posters have mentioned, SEO is something that you have to dive into and get some hands on experience. 

Have you thought about starting your own blog so that you can start trying to rank it on Google for specific search terms? Or, if you know someone who runs a business, offer to perform some ongoing SEO for free (link building, creating blog content, optimising title tags etc.). You'll learn what works and what doesn't and you'll be offering some great value for their website.


Wordpress is great for beginners. So much of it can be templated. I would highly recommend picking one or two social media platforms rather than all 3. It's going to be difficult managing all of that and building any one of them to a size that starts getting calls. So maybe start on Facebook and Twitter and maybe run ads on IG through your Facebook if you need to be on all three. 

That being said best of luck to you! Great first steps! 
Facebook blueprint - for Facebook ads
Between AdWords and that, it will be plenty to get started.

WordPress is also a good spot to get started for a website.
Wordpress is excellent for beginners.
You should learn and be skilled in keyword research and competition analysis for better success with PPC.

I've tried Google Data Studio, and for one-off applications it's fine, but creating those for multiple clients becomes cumbersome and inefficient.
I think you can use https://ahrefs.com/



For demand reasons, Facebook Ads. 



Facebook ads all the way. You will have fun split testing, making videos and static photos, and scaling...
I think it's always good to learn how you can improve your email marketing game! 
https://blog.rocketlevel.com/top-7-emails-every-small-business-should-be-sending
Forgot one! Kissmetrics had an awesome article on the importance of technical SEO

[Kissmetrics - Technical SEO: Why It’s Becoming More Important Than Any Other SEO Tactic](https://blog.kissmetrics.com/technical-seo/)
Udemy has some great courses on all 3 topics.  I like the ones taught by: 
Daragh Walsh
Isaac Rudansky
Corey Rabazinski 
Diego Davila

If you can wait until a Udemy sale which comes around every few weeks, you can get each course for about $12.
# Totally agree with [mighty\_k\_marketing](https://www.reddit.com/user/mighty_k_marketing)


Adding to that, I say [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com) is one place which helped me to learn in early stage and still, follow Industry leaders\(subscribe\), you will get *out of the box* ideas and deep research knowledge. 




Hey Its Digital Marketing, it changes every day. :\-\) 

Posting behalf of  [legenesis](https://www.legenesis.com)

I've been in marketing for almost 7 years now and I'm still constantly learning about platforms I've used heavily for all these years. Especially as new changes and updates are added. 

Hugs bro

Both Facebook and Google have certification programs so, knock those out 
There are so many contents on the web for it, from Neil Patel to Moz. You can follow anyone or go to preadr.com and select the interest and you can get the content according to your interest.
Hi Aakrit,

All of us go through that phase. I appreciate you have the guts to admit it and your willingness to rectify that. I am ex employee of Google and I have put up a website for everyone who wants to step forward when it comes to digital marketing.



Cheers,

KC


Use Facebook Blueprint too, its helped me a lot. But the real troubles begin with big ad budgets ;) Skill of correct money distributing comes only with experience. 

I. Know. The. Freaking. Feeling!





Now we're talking.

Respect for making that realization man.  It's gonna be really tough in the beginning but stick to it and use your copywriting chops with your newfound funnel superpowers (once you get'em) and become a titan!

Best.





I haven't found an article in english to share but they made a big announcement for being the first in the world to implement this process.
Hi,
    I'm a content marketer and have worked with many cannabis businesses like Leafly, The Weed Blog and Precise Cannabis to name a few.



Thank you
Nobody knows.
OK, some good posts in my absence on free training. Use that to orient yourself and become aware of all the areas you need to be aware of, SEO, SEA, SMM all the acronyms. I also highly suggest some digital marketing Podcasts and books, to learn the vernacular and how people think about marketing, and a general marketing primer as well.

Your journalism might be a help on the content creations site, SEO copywriting, blogs, etc...



Whether you are or aren't interested in that, I'd advise you to start your own website with blog, maybe something culinary, put on analytics, try and drive traffic with organic or very small paid means, and have a platform to explore some of the concepts you learn from the free sources hands-on.

Good Luck!



After few projects, you can hire a VA and manage the projects.

Then you can start your own SMMA. Sounds good?


If you can get a hold of a Lynda subscription even for a free period of time that would be good. Also start a website just to prove you can do it and have access to a google analytics account 

I did this...went to se Asia on a or way ticket not really knowing where I was gonna end up...ended up living in Cambodia for a year and half! It was pretty good and I would recommend it!

That being said...finding a job in your industry out there can be quite challenging and if you do find something then expect a huge pay cut...your best bet is to try get yourself a business going online before hand or some kind of revenue that way
I just got back from a vacation to Thailand and Cambodia. Definitely recommend moving there for a while (unless you have allergies). Agree with u/mjonat and u/marketinghack3r about bringing your own clients or freelance work. Local wages aren't fantastic. I met a bartender who did vacation packages during the day for rich people, then tended bar at night to have fun. He wasn't making bank, but it Chiang Mai or Siem Reap, you don't need to make bank to live quite comfortably. I read that not all apartments or houses have hot water. They just don't use hot water, so make sure you have it if you want it. If you're making bank, though, consider living at a hotel for a few months. Quite a few resorts that can give you great living conditions and reliable WiFi. Best of luck. Keep us posted.


Cost of living is significantly lower though, so if you have no plans on going back to where you're from, the money that you'll earn should be more than enough.
I've taken my family to Cambodia, Thailand, Vietnam and Bali whilst working. All fantastic places for a change of pace as you put it. 

For what it's worth, I would recommend Hoi An, Vietnam or Ubud, Bali. The internet is generally not great in either but Ubud does have a popular workspace (Hubud). Hoi An is amazing and has cheaper rents and living. 
Wrote this a while ago for a friend. http://www.thelashcollective.com/help-have-i-been-shadowbanned/
I don't know any unwritten rules. What I do know is GrowthPup (https://growthpup.com/) is a great tool for building your following by as many as 2,000 followers a month. My engagement went up - I didn't see any negative feedback and didn't get penalized in any way. 
* Liking too many photos in too short of time 

be narcissistic 
So you say Google Fred 'punishes' low quality (spam, clickbate) websites? If this encourages more high value website content than this is a positive development right? 
Cast a generic net and then you can breakdown your performance data by age and gender after. Also it sounds like you shoukd just start with a lookalike audience 

Get good at optimizing websites/landing pages in a certain niche, build a good portfolio of proven results, and build a reputation.

The more money you can help a business make, the more they'd be willing to pay you. Exercise this.

Being able to gain insight from disparate data sources and model that data efficiently is super important now and will be super important in 5 years. It allows you to work with many different kinds of software and bring real value quickly. 
I suggest you learn influencer marketing best practices.  As a strategy, many are looking to get into it as it's a great way to get in front of ideal consumers. It's also a good way to help a business generate leads and sales.
[deleted]
Check out Qlik
Hootsuite 
Google Analytics 
LinkedIn Analytics 
Mailchimp 

Boomerang, Hiver,  SendPulse, Piktochart, Apester, Hootsuite, tweetreach, wistia & Google Analytics
HubSpot's [blog](blog.hubspot.com)  has a lot of great content.
I have found them to have great blog and social post on many digital marketing topics

https://www.gettingtogreen.com/category/g2g-blog/
You should try:
http://searchengineland.com - SEO blog
https://econsultancy.com/ - great SEO & digital resource
https://moz.com/blog - SEO software blog
http://www.copyblogger.com/ - SEO software blog
https://yoast.com/seo-blog/ -  can be good for SEO tips
http://www.toprankblog.com/ - SEO blog
http://www.freshegg.co.uk/blog/ - SEO agency blog
https://www.bruceclay.com/blog/ - SEO agency blog
https://www.branded3.com/blog/ - SEO agency blog
http://www.redalien.co.uk/blog/ - SEO agency blog
https://www.koozai.com/blog/ - SEO agency blog
https://www.seroundtable.com/ - SEO news
http://www.seobythesea.com/ - SEO blog

Market motive training used to be pretty good - University of San Francisco Online also has a digital marketing program online
Agree with Paul. If you have zeal to be a digital marketer, I don't think there is any hidden techniques a course can teach you which is not already available online.

Who are you writing to?

2. Develop a user persona
3. Discover his/her pain points or do some keyword research and social listening.

Where will you connect with them?

2. What are they searching for?
3. Why are they there? (Entertainment, information etc.)

What content will you publish?

Based on the above, you'll know who you're writing to and what they want when they're hanging out online.

You've set yourself up to have the best chance at catching their attention. All that's left is to publish content.

Create content that solves a problem for the persona you've developed. Use the keywords you researched, and position your content in a manner that's relevant to the platform you're publishing on, with the voice you know they'll respond to.

For example:

Say we sell kitchen knives. I would define my target audience as middle aged women who might be stay at home mothers that enjoys cooking.

I could create a user persona based on this knowledge with a few assumptions based in experience and intensive research:



It may be effective to provide a free ebook download with the title "Be a Super Mom - 10 recipes your whole family is guaranteed to love". We could easily write this and send it to her email, upon having her fill out a form. We could create a post for it on Facebook and target it at our audience at the times we know she's online. 



In this specific example there were 6 pieces of content; the Facebook post, the landing page with a form, the ebook, the email that delivers the ebook, the follow up email with the knife offer, and the sales page. Each of these items must be written for that user persona and optimized to push the visitor to the next stage in the funnel.



Content Marketing plays a formidable role in a creating of a rock-strong and impressive startup marketing strategy. It is not only affordable but if effectively utilized, can help you reach both primary and secondary target audience including your B2B companies and everyday consumers.


1. Understand you niche and create a content what your audience need.

2. Add visuals to the content. Users look for a content that are easy to go through. Infographics, videos, graphs will attract your users more.



5. Do not forget to give call to action in between as well as at the end of the content. If you miss the call to action you will miss the lead generation.

Hey Jasper!
Interesting idea, I love the fact that you're marketing as not 'normal' clothing :D
I can also see that you're based in Amsterdam, so am I right to assume that English isn't your mother tongue? I ask, because there a few, very little grammatical errors.  Like your category, 'clothings'. One piece of clothing, two pieces of clothing.  The world 'clothings' doesn't exist, unless you abbreviate 'clothing is'.

Not trying to stir the pot, just trying to help ;) I'm a native speaker based in your area, shoot me a DM if you'd like to know more!




Completely agree with your point. I consider that especially when the lead generation process is initiated online, a profound collaboration between marketing and sales reps is necessary in order to align the buyer`s journey stages properly and conduce prospects adequately along the sales funnel. We developed a tool that can be really useful in this case, you might want to take a look if you have some spare time. It is called Beamium (www.beamium.com) and it is a solution to create online presentations which capture high-quality leads based on diverse call to actions integrated in the presentation and also provide relevant analytics. In this way the marketing team captures the interest of prospects with the diverse product/service presentations and comes back to the sales reps with the high-quality leads they have captured. We are on our first steps, but I think is a good start to better align both activities in SMBs.    



What are your views for the future? Do you consider that there will be a merger between both marketing and sales tasks? E.g. at start-ups nowadays it is common to see positions such as Head of Business Development, which actually coordinate both activities. 

Thanks!
Great article 
Great article but you left out SEOMoz!
Well, what exactly are you about? What is your blog supposed to represent? The niche would narrow it down a bit. Affiliate Marketing is a great way..but it's hard to say without knowing anything about your blog. 
thanks for sharing this
great post shyer 
I love everything about digital marketing.
I am just starting out on the wonderful journey that is digital marketing...  The more I discover and learn the more exciting things get! Any quality advice or tutorials welcome BTW.
Gotta say what I love about it is everyday is a new day! Digital marketing is always changing and it's interesting to see how consumers respond to ads.
I love it. 
Google Garage. Google Partners Certificates. Learn to use Facebook ads.
neil patel & Ryan deiss




You don't need to have an engineering or scientific degree to do this. With enough practice, you can follow this simple framework and become a great digital marketer with enough practice. By applying the digital marketing scientific method, you can end up predicting which marketing tactics will be most effective by running small tests to gather data. 

Once you have that information, you can make tweaks to your experiments and improve your marketing results. Here's a summary of how I approached the marketing campaigns for my company, Factivate:

1) Start compiling all of your marketing problems/ideas you can think of (or read) into your spreadsheet for digital marketing. In here, outline how long it will take to execute (input time) and how long it can take you to get accurate data readings from an experiment (output time). We would spend every morning about 10-20 minutes here. 

2) Prioritize your marketing strategies based on how they fit with your goals. Then score them based on the probability of success, resources required, and impact. This would take us about 10 minutes.


4) After you've connected your spreadsheet to automatically update (and pull data from the third party source, i.e. Twitter), add triggers to your top KPIs in order to be alerted whenever a specific KPI changes beyond a particular parameter that could either tell you to stop or accelerate a particular experiment. This took us literally seconds to implement per KPI as a spreadsheet formula. Some of these included: 

Send an email when Conversions > 100 for each campaign / channel                
Send an email when re-tweets > 250
Send an email when bounce rates >50% for a landing page

5) Run your experiment(s). You should be able to validate your assumptions based on the 80/20 marketing experiment. Do this by breaking down your goal into week-to-week growth targets so that you can measure your progress.

6) Create your experiment report by documenting how you will be executing the marketing strategy. These will vary depending on your hypothesis, channel, strategy. We have these reports done automatically so it doesn't take us any time.



9. Rinse and Repeat again:)

There are thousands of marketing documents and white papers that you can use as inspiration and not as a copy/paste playbook for your app/business (including this comment). I do all of this using our Factivate spreadsheet because it can be adopted and customized by almost everybody although you can use thousands of other tools. The main point here is that you you are using a systematic/scientific approach and you will instantly be on your way to become a great marketer and prevent burnout from wasted time/effort on the wrong campaigns. 

Cheers!
Maybe if you give a little bit more of background it will be easier to help. Every business has its needs. First think of which are the objectives. Try to think what are the specific needs beyond downloads. Is your app known? Is there a community listening your marketing message? Is there a website? Do I need traffic?. Once you know your objective check the solutions available. Adwords, Content Marketing, Social Media, etc. Then with the budget you make an evaluation which one is the most suitable for you. After some time when you have gather data on which is the best performing channel you can get creative. Very important to know is how much are you willing to spend per conversion. If you are not clear on that, check how much is the profit per customer and from this point you know that you cannot spend more than that per conversion. For example: if every customer pay $1 for the app and you earn 20 cents, your marketing budget is less than 20 cents/conversion. I hope it helps. It is a very broad and generic answer but with your brief it is hard to tell more. 
Facebook will integrate Instagram analytics soon which will help. Have you thought about segmenting your audience by hashtag combination demographics? 

Eg. Users that like #latestfashion and #coffeehit more likely to make decisions based on impulse which is great for fashion sales with a time limit. Or #whenstheweekend more likely to be interested in job seeking or holidays. 
Legit value add - thanks OP
nice article...
Came across this article the other day and figured I would share. I love how she picks on the bigger companies who even make some pretty crucial mistakes. Let me know what you think!
A breakdown of the podcast would be nice. If you really wanted to share knowledge you wouldn't just be fishing for clicks.
It's totally dependent on your campaign and competition 
[deleted]
Very funny stuff. 
This is seriously one of the all time great digital marketing videos. 
So you got some music created as a great collection of content. Now you have to think of how you are going to distribute that content. A great way to do this is to talk to other artists and people who listen to that genre of music. Hanging with other artists in the community is huge. They already have followers and if you can establish yourself in that scene, you're golden.

The best way to go about that is to always go in with a soft intro when meeting other artists and to always start small. Maybe message a few local artists that are similar and see if they want to collaborate.

Also, have a vision for your brand and where you want to see things go. You never want to come off as a fan or a fake artist trying to piggy back off someones following.


You focused heavy on your content which is an expression of yourself.




=)

Hope that helps! Good luck on your music!
That's a great question, hahaha. Also if anyone has any stock picks (something like amazon in 1999) let me know!
Business Intelligence ( Look up SQL, R, Tableau), Product Marketing, Salesforce...
Account Based Marketing / ABM

Also, within influencer marketing there is live streaming which people are still figuring out. Influencer marketing as a whole is still relatively young- along with podcast advertising. Seeing how this progressing (I personally think there will be a transition to a CPA model). 

Facebook messenger bot marketing
Podcasts.
Programmatic
Email marketing/Inbox marketing
IMO, the next biggest Digital Trend of 2019 are:

Data Analysis | Machine Learning | Artificial Intelligence

Real Time Marketing Management (RTMM). Very few people know what it is and very few companies can afford it. The ones investing in this will be the ones on top in a few years.
I’ve just started diving into the Zapier integration platform for various purposes. I’ve seen multiple SMS options that will integrate with Facebook Lead Ads on their paid plans. Could be a good place to start looking.
You can do this multiple ways, but the easiest would be in Zapier to integrate your Facebook Lead account, use a new submission as the trigger, and then make the action send a SMS to the define phone number.

&#x200B;

You can also do this using Hubspot or Active Campaign if you potentially use them as your CRM.


&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
It is broad match
If you implement Google Tag Manager on your site, you can implement a rule to track the "apply now" button clicks.   You can then implement the conversion pixel of the DSP/Adwords (wherever you are getting the traffic) to fire when that button is clicked as a result of your media.
Often times there are 3rd party tracking pixels that you can work with the companies to access information through. You'd need to do a data sharing agreement with everyone involved, but on certain industries, this is pretty standard. I've done a bunch of these, if you PM me, I can try to help.




Hmm. If it’s not your core business, don’t do it, refer them a trainer. But if you want to do it... you could check out some other FB courses or Blueprint and put together your own course materials. 

Then you’ll know how long it will take. And you might have another service you can sell afterwards :-)


Edit: word
A class I took recently covered this. They mentioned video taping some of your lessons or just saving material so you can use it in the suture. They also said that even if it’s less work, you should be charging them significantly more. Because you’re passing on your years of experience. Which probably includes expensive mistakes. Years of stress and trial and error. Jobs that paid little. Classes or other learning materials. Etc. and they are expecting to just get all of that.
Moz/semrush will give you an idea of as copy and keyword they are bidding on and a few estimates.  Assuming they are big.  Maybe start there if they definitely won't give you viewing access.
I can tell you as someone who hires PPC people that when I ask those sorts of questions, I'm not necessarily looking for an answer to the question. Instead, I'm looking to understand how the person goes about performing the research to answer the question. 

Basically, what  I'm looking for when I ask those questions is 'does this person know enough to figure out how to answer the question correctly'. Obviously bonus points if you can actually answer the question effectively too.
You can be added as a viewer on their account without them giving you the user/password

They can do this by simply going to Google Ads > Keywords > Download.

If you want to review their adverts, ad extensions or any other assets without Google Ads access, they can do the exact same thing.

Just remember, you, a person who knows what he's doing, are just like 5% of the total people who clicks ads.

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Sounds like a juvenile objection. Do you have data to show adding main site navigation to the landing page improves campaign ROI? If no, you have no argument. In some cases you could be correct in your assumption, but right now you are just using a personal anecdote and assuming that based on that you know how to properly spend the clients money while people who have more experience than you are telling you to do it the way the data shows.
Good optimized website + google ads and retargetting.

Then instagram + influencers.

Twitter to create a brand

Fb has too much noise to stand out. I would be wary of spending too much on it. Just be active and focus on oragic growth there.

Also, drip marketing for better user experience.
Fb+Ig ads combined with influencers
Considering your budget and bussiness type you should follow product based advertisement policy at the beggining. It is relatively cheap and short-term act. Facebook, Instagram and google ads are the best choice for that. Before publishing ads be sure that your website is mobile optimized since most of potential users of yours will be connected through mobile devices. Afterwards when you have more budget and renown you should develop SEO.
Can I be brutally honest? 




Hope this isn't discouraging! I think you have the start to a solid website going. Some fine tuning and you'll be humming along in no time. Feel free to DM if you want!
That’s a great idea thank you. Do you suggest maybe messaging specific people that follow us on social media as well? If so what might be a good type of thing for the message regard?
The two best way is to just keep your money and send your products to instagram influencers for immediate results and work on SEO for your website for long run.

1. You need to run client ads through their own business FB page with their attached payment method. Then they'll make you an Admin so that you can create and run campaigns.
1. Get yourself signed up for a free Facebook Business Manager Account using the name of your business (business.facebook.com)
2. Add your employee who will be managing the ads to this account, and give them an appropriate level of access for their role.
3. Add all the pages you will be managing/running ads for to business manager and give said employee access. If you're not already an admin on these pages, you can request access through business manager. It's very professional since the access request will show up as being from your business.
6. Always run ads on a client ad account, never on your business account. Allowing your clients to understand how much of their money is going to ad spend and how much of it is going to management fees is a positive sign of accountability and transparency for your business. Scammy businesses who try to skim money off the top of client ad spend do it the other way.


Good luck!

&#x200B;

Edited because typos.

Write all of those down. Write out your rationale for your choices the first couple of times. Look at reporting that addresses those choices. Write down what you learned and what you should do next time. 

Truth is you’re going to have a lot of trial and error—try to maximize what you learn from each trial.


However, my campaign is about to end and I only reached <20,000 per variation (which is well below the sample size needed to reach stat sig).

Have you ever run any ads from your personal ad account outside of business manager? If you created an ad account for your business then you still have a separate personal ad account that came with your personal Facebook account that might have a small balance riding on it that you forgot, or that you just unintentionally billed to that ad account when setting up a campaign at some point.

Also, rather than trying to boost posts from inside the Instagram app, you could just create a new ad campaign with the Engagement goal, then when you’re creating your new ads for the campaign, choose the option to use an existing post. You’ll get a pop-up with all of the posts that you can promote. 

Look for the Instagram tab in that pop-up. If you can’t select it, then make sure the Instagram account you connected to your FB Business Manager is selected. The option is very close to the button you click to use an existing post as an ad.

Once you’re in the Instagram tab, choose a post to use in your ad, then repeat.

This way you can create one shared budget that all of your promoted Instagram posts, and the posts that perform best will get the majority of your budget. 

If you want to spread budget out evenly then just create separate ad groups or campaigns for each post you want to promote.
Qlutch seems useful for non-marketing professionals or for people without much marketing experience to build plans, but paying for things you can easily google and find advice on for free probably isn't a great investment. That said, I don't have direct experience with it, so others may have found success with it.
I'm putting one together on Piktochart right now. Free online software and pretty malleable for a free service. Strongly recommend. Really good if you want to use info-graphics heavily in your plan and have it be visually interesting.
Google Analytics gives courses on how to use it for casual/advanced use
I am a Google Certified Partner. If you have any questions about google ads just send a message. I can send you google online courses I think these are free of charge.
The google Certs are good to get for your resume but in terms of learning they’re not the best imo. There’s a channel I found the other day on YouTube that was really good called Surfside PPC I think? And there’s a bunch of other good channels as well!
As far as i've known an experienced, as long as you (the customer) have your phone connected to google AND your GPS is on, google just automatically asks you to review places he thinks you've been to based on GPS coordinates. 

I have a cracked version of the screaming frog
I urge you to pay your interns. If not hourly, a stipend. And if not a stipend, you should cover any/all expenses for commuting. Also if you don't pay them, you need to offer it for-credit or else it's illegal.
Show them your case studies. 
Learn sales. 
I think brand style and voice, and being consistent are critical, but I don’t know that illustration vs photo is generally more or less effective. Illustrations and animations are certainly popular these days for sure. 

I’m so sick of seeing everyone reuse the same stock photos for similar pieces, and any time you can do your own pictures, even if not as professional as “real” stock, your photos will always represent your brand best. 

I would not generally recommend mixing visual styles and metaphors though. Get your brand style figured out and run with it. 
My name is Chirag Jain, I am 18yrs young from "Indore" city based in India. I'm an Enthusiast Digital Marketer and i've worked for more then 4 companies as a Digital Marketer ( i.e: WWF, UN, Daly College, ASASS ). I would like to work from Remote or On-site . I am open to work for free or whatever salary is provided
Hi, I'm a graphic designer with 4 years' experience working with businesses and personal brands. Between liaising with clients, working on projects, and life commitments, I find myself not having as much time as I would like to reach out to new clients.


If you're interested or would like to learn more, do drop me a message. Thanks and I hope to hear from you soon.
[https://www.reddit.com/user/saad\_abbasi/comments/bjr0jw/digital\_marketing\_ventures/?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x](https://www.reddit.com/user/saad_abbasi/comments/bjr0jw/digital_marketing_ventures/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x)
Dont list it as a gap... you WERE working. List each company or website name. List the results on that just like a regular job.
Which city are you in? 

Usually best practice not to tell employers about personal decisions that affect your professional experience unless it's for the positive - it's not their business to know about.
I love this conversation. I’m a certified social media manager and I’m actively pursuing SEO training through OMG machines. I’m interested in your journey and interviewing you. If that’s ok with you, let’s connect
In Salesforce, we use specific Inquiry Source, Inquiry Source Detail, and then also use Campaigns. We tend to get pretty specific with them and then group them at high level by Referral Source. And that would be things like Internet, Word of Mouth, Outreach, etc. 
 Employment & Recruiting Marketing

Influencer Marketing

 PPC Management

 Personalized Web Content

 Infographics & Motion Graphics

 Voice Search Content Optimization

 Conversion Rate Optimization

 Page Speed Optimization

 508 Compliance Design

 Online Review Management

 Content Marketing Services

&#x200B;
Add Brand Marketing as well
The expert Digital marketing services bring targeted prospects from different online platforms. They are Social media sites, referral websites and other platforms. some important areas are...

Social Media Optimization

Social Media Marketing

PPC Management Services

Facebook Advertising

Linkedin Advertising

Twitter Advertising 

Youtube Advertising

Email Marketing

Content Marketing  

Web Design

App Design
The main thing is correct apostrophe usage. 
for SEO purposes, try YOAST
Yes. Many. 
Plugins are for SEO purposes and SEO is a part of Digital Marketing.. Yoast helps to edit metatitle, metadescription and many other things.. W3 total cache, W3 super cache, Compress JPEG and PNG Images, etc.. There are so many plugins in wordpress, different ones for different tasks. 
The answer depends. What are you looking for? Lead generation, abandonment recovery, SEO, A/B testing, affiliate link management... you'll find a lot of them in the WordPress plugin repository.
 

1. Describe your organization in as few words as possible.
2. What are the objectives of the Digital Marketing Strategy? Be as specific as possible. e.g. instead of saying ‘Increasing brand awareness’, say ‘Increasing brand awareness amongst the PHP programmers of Rome.’
3. On what parameters would the performance of the Digital Marketing Strategy be measured? e.g. Mailing list subscribers, Facebook fans, revenue, online sales etc.
4. What is the budget and time-scale of the Digital Marketing Strategy?
5. Have all stakeholders agreed to these objectives, parameters, budget, and time-scale?
6. Define the personnel who will be working on implementing the Digital Marketing Strategy. How many man-hours can the organization devote to implementing the Digital Marketing Strategy?
1. Budget / Timeline allocated for the project to determine the level of work you deliver + time invested.
2. Expectations & objective of the relationship / consulting you will deliver
3. What services are required and why? (Here offer upsells after doing extensive research before meeting client)
4. What their goal for the year is
5. Who their target market is / personnas (to better target ads, work on relevant & relatable copywriting, and to undestand your audience)

&#x200B;


Goodluck mate
Their goals, their marketing plan, their audience, their history (what’s worked and what hasn’t, and why), their budgets and timeframes, their capabilities inhouse, their obstacles

Make sure you’re well researched in how you can help them either bu creating opportunity or saving cost (or both)


If the linked account falls below 250 clicks over the past 30 days for the selected view, Smart Goals will be deactivated until the clicks rise again to 500 or more. 
Unless you're completely rebranding (changing name) I'd just keep that account and wipe the page. start fresh with new images or some designs advertising your skills. Although 1000+ followers might be low to some I think it helps you stand out as somewhat reputable, especially if the page looks nice. 
Hi ! If you guys have any other suggestions, i'll be glad to hear more ! \^-\^
Most important lesson learned or what you need to learn first? 
[deleted]
Scripting, with a huge emphasis on manipulating databases.

&#x200B;

I’d start broad and then get granular. How to build and design a website from scratch, how cookies work from the technical side, for example. Then I would learn about the marketing. I think this would have expedited my understanding of digital marketing and I’d be able to market myself as a complete internet whiz to small businesses. 
Learn Google Analytics and how to read the data. This is SO VITAL in this industry. You can track the strategies you're testing, and where you need to make adjustments. 

Digital Graphics. I'm very skilled at Photoshop, but I wish this was a skill set I started long before I started using it everyday. You'll save so much money creating your own creatives. It's hard to get a "vision" to someone a lot of the time. So if you can create your own creatives, you never have to worry about this.

RemindMe! 1 day
Remindme!
Links to past works, articles, email templates etc. You can blur out client specific info.

For SEO I'd provide screenshots and analytic reports. Also testimonials are great
I'm a playlist curator, been looking for some bloggers to write articles for artists promo.

Whats your reach like? 
How do you get paid? 
Got a link to some affiliated blogs or anything?
I'm interested potentially
We do paid advertising. Could be interesting.
I m in

- Make it personal, know their competitors and understand where their niche is. Shows initiative and you'd be surprised how few take the extra step.
- Look at their program (on site, paid, local, display, etc.) and assess what they're doing right and what they could be doing better. Some places will point blank ask you as a second step to give an assessment like this. If you come prepared with ideas and recommendations, it is often received very well.

If it is an agency, however, my main advice would be:



Best of luck and hope you land it!
Create a presentation and include a couple examples of projectscampaigns you have worked on. This is a great way to show how methodical you can be in your approach and in interviews people tend to respond to this visual approach more positively... Imagine how many other people have been interviewed with the same monotonous approach, Yano?

Just make sure to explain what worked well and how you achieved your goals, however, remember to include info about a time you struggled during a project/campaign and how you overcame this. (It's easier said than done but be natural)

+
If you can provide info on there business and say (realistically) how you would like to improve this. I.e. follower count (for Social Media Platforms) impressions, Reach, CTR etc... - for the latter do a quick Google search for the industry average and use that as a benchmark in your explanation. This can show your drive and willingness to perform well... Also try and align it with your own personal enjoyment 
And excitement for the job :)

++
Finally, for an organisation, if you will be working within a larger team try and be personable and be prepared for some off the wall questions. These are to guage how well you will fit into there mould or simply to guage how quick your response time may be... Problem solving and all that...


LinkedIn clicks (depending on where in their analytics you are looking) on an ad can be a click to your website, but they also can be clicks on the ad that do not take them off of LinkedIn, such as a reaction.

LinkedIn is a bot-full cesspool, so if you are using Google Analytics it may be removing bots that LinkedIn is not.


Did you tag your campaign? if not and they are using an app, then it very well could look like direct traffic.  Check this by seeing if your direct traffic is all mobile, and landing on your ad's landing destination. 

Maybe LinkedIn count the clicks on the publication and not only the clicks which go to the website
Should be able to link GDS and Facebook with SuperMetrics to auto-populate. 
Try swydo
Grab an agency job mate, you’ll learn a lot and build your network
You may consider getting an apprenticeship, it helps to speed up the development of your learning curve as well as being able to hold off on your own.
Honestly, you're going to find it really difficult to establish yourself as a freelancer without any real world experience. I don't know of anyone who would use a freelancer without it. I'd say you want to build up a few years experience and without experience your best bet is at an agency. Do that for a bit then start to do a bit on the side and gradually try to transition to FT freelance. But you need to be patient because it will take time for people to take you seriously.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

You can greatly improve your odds of getting a position by getting the certifications from Google in Search & Display. The training is reasonable and if you pair it with the book Advanced Google AdWords by Brad Geddes (get the latest edition), you’ll be a gun in no time.
[removed]

You need to check the quality of website from which your link juice is coming.

I am mentioning 3 top tools for the same (Almost all the industry guys are using this only)

1- You can check domain authority & page authority from MOZ

2- You can check trust flow & citation flow from Majestic

3- You can check domain rating from Ahrefs

&#x200B;

Generally speaking if it's a relevant site with good domain authority it'll be a quality link.
You can use Moz for Domain Authority and Page Authority.

  


Monthly retainer 
I might be newer to this than others, but I try to work with what makes the most sense for my clients. 




Another note — I just recently got over the idea that some services are “expensive” — digital marketing services (SEO, Content writing - if high quality, social media ads, PPC) are worth a lot in the market.

Even $300-$400/hr isn’t that crazy if you provide true expert level work.



The coach I follow says only 10 - but we’ll see 😂
Always try and bill by the project and better still, get onto a retainer to complete projects long term.
I.e. - this project will take 6 months to complete and our fee to do that will be $3,000 per month. That sort of thing.


At a very minimum, if you go the route of Project billing then make sure to establish boundaries. For example, instead of "one page for $500" you might say "one new page draft including up to two rounds of revisions for $500" or even "one new page draft for $400 plus $150 per round of revisions." This way you are still putting the cost back on the client if they are inclined to put you through your paces. I think you'll also find with well-structured arrangements like these, even the most indecisive clients will magically become more decisive and interested in closing the loop on any given scope of work.
Project, of course. How can they judge your hourly rate if they aren't around to see it? It's very easy to modify per hour (shitty move but DM firms do it daily). Give them a concrete price, and get to work!
Depends on the requirement of the client. If its just maintenance and report generation i charge by the hour if its a huge project (hundred thousand dollar++) i charge by project. 
I heard many great things about RevLocal. They are pretty big too.
People seems to be going to Assembly and Essence a lot lately 
Yep! Set a new Destination goal > Destination Begins With:  shop/checkout/?order-id= 

Verify the goal and you should be all set.
Don’t pay for traffic if the traffic hates the site. Focus on conversion rates as a UX metric. If you have a 1% conversion rate do the math to predict the ROAS. If instead you had a 2% conversion (and potential for upselling or other AOV increases) the math will prove your point. 
UX comes first

I will give you an example:

&#x200B;

Client payed €4000 for a site. Also spend €2000 in ads. 8000clicks after and the CVR ( 6 months) was 0.01%

I decided that i had to create a new site in order for his business not to go under.

Spend $8 on namecheap. Spend some time setting up and cleaning a WordPress theme. Spend €267 on google search ads. 

CVR is \~9% \[after 39 days\].

&#x200B;

So, as i said, UX comes first.

&#x200B;

Honestly this sounds like a communication issue between you two to me. If you haven’t already I would ask why he believes PPC should be prioritized before the UX of the site. That should give you the key to what you need to address in your answer to have a chance at convincing him. Seeking first to understand before being understood will end a lot of disagreements in all sorts of circumstances.


But the important thing to realize is that you guys are on the same team, trying to do what’s best for the business/family in your own way. Or maybe none of this applies if it is something else he is hung up about, I don’t know. Only he does and only talking to him will help you find out. These are just some ideas from the outside, good luck with everything.
What are you selling?

Depending on these factors I can't make a judgement call because either one of you could be right.


If your conversion rate is not too shocking (I.e. Less than 2-3% and your products are sold via Google Shopping fairly easily then I imagine your Father is looking at that channel for fairly instant cash flow - which you can then use for UX improvements. 

&#x200B;

They are both important and need one another to get good results.


It sounds like the site is, at the very least, functional. So there’s that and that’s good. Run a ppc campaign for a few days and then begin optimizing and let the data speak for itself. 

Good luck! 
Assuming you know what you're doing the tier two into tier three method is still effective. It's easy to leave a footprint for google to realize you're links are sub-par. The best way to rank is the slow and steady build up of good content on your main site and reach out for guest blogs and even pay for PBNs if you can. Just make sure you are linking (even if it is no-follow) on some other sites to ensure you have some decent link diversity.


If you want to go this way I recommend creating those pages and then let them age for couple of months before you create those backlinks. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/DigitalMarketing) if you have any questions or concerns.*
SEMrush will be your friend to fond valuable keyphrases.
Degrees are nice but hands-on matters more. You can always do some classes at night if you decide in the future you want some university. I only did college, got a job and then did university at night. I'm in Canada, which I know has a slightly different education system then in the UK.

1. The Known

I think you're fine for now as an individual contributor.  We're all pretty used to hiring CVs that don't have a degree on them and only if we're totally overwhelmed with applications or if it's a 50/50 call on experience is it likely that the education will really come into it.

&#x200B;

2. The Unknown


&#x200B;

Definitely depends on the company.
If you are a beginner in digital marketing then start with creating a website on wordpress and apply what you ve learnt until now. Follow Moz, Search engine Journal, Backlinko and Matthew Barbys website to learn seo. Become master in seo and move on to ppc, facebook and other ads. I prefer referring wordstream.com for ppc and adexpresso website for studying facebook ads.


I hope the doubt is clarified. ☺️

If you see a post from another company that you want to interact with (sharing, commenting, etc), then there’s now a pull-down tab on the post itself in the controls on the post — right next to the like, comment, and share controls, you’ll see a small version of your profile photo with a downward-facing carat. 

Click on that and you can select the page that you want to interact from. If you manage a lot of pages through a FB business manager like I do, you actually can search for the page here. Does that make sense? 
I personally do 1702pxx630px and the result is awesome. 
You can increase your domain authority by 5 as below:

**Conduct a link audit:**  

Remember for a great DA ranking, you have to focus on maintaining a healthy link profile. Google loves websites with variety of links. It means you should build links as per Google's guidelines. But prior that do the current link analysis of your website. You can use tools such as SEMrush Backlink Audit, Majestic, Moz's Open Site Explorer, etc. 

**Build high-quality links:**

There are many ways you can opt for this. You can target the sites that have changed their names or stopped offering service. Then check all the sites which are link to the old sites and start building links on them. You can use Quora for your backlink building by answer questions and then giving a helpful URL of your website related to that.

**Create a content that your readers love:**

Understand the area of interest of your readers and create a content accordingly. This will help you gain more visitors on your site and ultimately improve your domain authority.

**Make your SEO strong:**

SEO plays a big role in improving your DA. Check if you are using meta tags correctly as they help Google as well as visitors to find your content. So, focus on your SEO.
Domain Authority is Mainly Depends on DomainAGE and fewer Spam Backlinks. and Also All the backlinks from HIGH DA and PA website with Hight Trust Flow. There is No exact time to increase a domain Authority by any amount of number.

In both the cases there is only 5 DA difference between the domain authority. But the value of the DA is very different. In your case you page authority can be increased easily by 5 points you just need to build few quality backlinks on the particular page. 

But on the other hand to increase your domain authority from 30 to 35 you need to built more and more quality backlinks. Thanks hope you get your answer.
I have built a page authority of 31 and domain authority of 23 in just 4 months. Still, a long way to go.  


&#x200B;
I have a number of teams on 3-5 projects at any one time and we use a combo of Asana and Airtable. I also come from an spreadsheet safespace but Airtable has been great. Cheers!



I haven’t used it too much for tasks yet as I am a Google Calendar whore for project management and I just can’t shake it. I manage deadlines etc. in calendars for each client and then share the calendar events with the responsible staff member. I also do this with all upcoming expenses. I like this system because on a Monday I can show all of the calendars at once, show by week view and see literally everything that’s going on during the week. 

We also have a system of using a green tick (✅) for things that have been dealt with, a play button (▶️) for things that have been claimed and are in progress, a pause button (⏸) for if work has been temporarily suspended and the same staff member will resume shortly, a stop button (⏹) is work has been stopped and handed off by the staff member and a bell (🔔) for manager input. 


&#x200B;

The budget was spent and provided you did your job right, there shouldn't be an issue with invoicing for a full month.

&#x200B;

Your client is probably happy to pay for the full month if the same end goal was achieved like sales or leads.
I think you have the best user name I've seen here in a while
Don't know if there's a marketing term for them but they are basically using the same technique as Bob Dylan in "Subterranean Homesick Blues" which was kind of a milestone in the making of music videos for "pop music". He also included intentional mistakes and puns in the lyrics. Hope this helps a little!
You will get a lot of bot clicks with very little fraud filtering. Make sure you have domain tracking through third party analytics so you can eliminate high click low converting sites.
Hey,

&#x200B;

We have a better solution for you. We have Google DV360 platform to promote your brand which is the very best tool in the industry. Do connect with me on mail at [rajasekhar@billiontags.com](mailto:rajasekhar@billiontags.com) or skype at live:raj.billiontags
There are a number of managed ad operations teams that could probably provide you with some better solutions (like mine - NitroPay.com). 
You can get personals badges:
https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/
https://landing.google.com/academyforads/
And join partners https://www.google.com/partners/about/
https://www.facebook.com/business/learn/certification
Seo
Awesome Post! 
It’s all about having good content and distributing that content across channels, social being a part of that.


I’m thinking of medium-intensity actions that will get you measurable results. Social also helps with SEO. Make sure you are linking to your website in your posts.



In that case I would say it wouldn’t hurt to have a fleshed out Facebook page to add credibility to the paid ads you run. Get good reviews on there, add maybe a dozen posts, build up to a few thousand followers. The big moneymakers are gonna be google ads and Facebook ads and I’d say they should get more focus than spending a ton of effort/time/money on those organic posts. 

I've worked for businesses with amazing organic content potential that regularly attracted thousands of engagements, and I've worked for businesses where there just wasn't a viable organic content strategy to be had. 

Used Social media with Products Store on facebook ... But Before Setup a Pages with all information and Share of products.. after that Create a Ads for sale .. and Second ads run for likes Then got many more sale ... 

Now days more People on Social media then Create a plan for Social media Both Organic and Paid ... Linkdin is best for B2B .. just Join us group and share helping content and Informational with Links ! ! 
Just a small piece of the puzzle, but with Facebook ads you can target people that are admins of business Facebook pages. Not a bad option for lead gen or gaining followers interested in your service. 

Also what’s your product? I have a lot of Shopify and woocommerce clients I work with on the social media ads side. 
Don't buy followers unless you mean using PPC then yes do that but focus on making high quality content and nurturing leads through engagement.
It is very dependent on the users ability to acquire, the complexity of the purchase, and the purchase cycle for the user.


Some products are complex and take time to understand -- like getting a home loan.


Some users aren't as trigger happy as you are and take time to purchase what they need even for what you think are simple purchases.

There are very few one-time, low-value, high-intent items for sale.

Lead nurturing can also happen after purchase to retain usership.
  


Sale cadence, funnels, flows or whatever the hottest catch phrase should apply to every sized business. Why? The framework of the funnel acts as a guide for the seller to manage the relationship with the buyer and it also helps the buyer through the decision process.

Example #1


Your example #2

I used to think exactly link you with the concept of providing contact information because you know you would be inundated with emails. However, landing pages which captures a little info or provide you an opportunity to download information is the right way to go for marketers, a visitor will not have the patients to review all of the details in their initial visit so a pdf is perfect. In your example, the visitor would have already done their research and probably would not enter the site through a marketing landing page they would have clicked on a affiliate link or something to get to the company home or eCommerce page. 


&#x200B;

· First let me say this get yourself a junk type email address so your real email does not bet clogged.



o Do they hard sell you?

o Do they respond quickly to your submission?

o Are you provided information that may help you after the sale?

o Are you provided additional discounts that you could take advantage of?

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Rick
It totally depends on the product. I don't have a sales funnel as my clients call me, we discuss details and how to proceed.

Many of my clients do have funnels as they are targeting high-level executives that need hand holding through the process. Those execs need to pitch it to the CEO or board of directors and they're comparing three top companies in the industry.

Getting targeted and qualified leads are important as not everyone is qualified.

Compare that to me, and most businesses are qualified. I work with a lot of tech, SaaS and funded startups so my experience with funnel's is limited to what they're doing, other industries may be different.
  

You can’t target only by first name, you email ids which are acquired with their consent. You can create a custom audience with Names, upload a list of names, last name etc., and then target them through ads.
SEO and geo fencing

That said, we don't really follow a schedule of posts but my dad does post pictures of his collection on the page semi-regularly.

What has worked very well for us is an ongoing Facebook ad that links to a Google "Step Inside" view of the shop. We get lots of comments and shares on that as well, which often translates to likes and sometimes visits to the shop.

I'd also be interested to read the advice in this thread!
  

You can put the business on Google Business Listing. Concentrate on the SEO. Write blog post every week using good amount of keywords. Also ask Facebook followers to share what you post. 

&#x200B;

I am focusing a lot of my energy on list building now and using email as a warm up.
Hello. Killing it with video right now. 


It all has to do with the pixel and the type of ad. Video is amazing for this. 
I'm using short videos and the conversion targeting using the pixel. It gets smarter the more sales you make

But here's my 2c.   



Also if they're not aware of the product, are they aware of the problem it's solving? If they're problem aware, then it's going to be a little bit easier to peak their interest vs if they're not, you're going to need to do a little education. 



The price point of the product is important as well. Is it an instant buy, or is it something that's going to have to be considered more carefully?

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
Yes, he’s legit and you should be able to get enough information from his free section. 

His books sugarcoat and glamorize the entrepreneurial lifestyle and seriously downplay the risks involved with what he advocates. 

I read the weekly digest email of popular threads on the forum, I have a free account and don’t really hang out there or spend any considerable time on there otherwise.





Good luck
Very legit
Any audit software like lipperhey, seositecheckup or seomator.
  

You can try Neil Patel’s Free SEO analysis tool. Also check SeoSiteCheckup.com.
SEMrush is great 
Hi,

Semrush and Moz blog are good sites.
Moz


Oh wtf? 

Also prepare and bring 3 backups of everything. Literally plan for your laptop to not work at all. Practice your pitch and everything without a laptop just in case - seriously. If your laptop doesn't work they'll be super impressed you did it without. Heck, just do the presentation without a laptop/powerpoint and I'll be impressed!
don't let them treat you like shit , make them feel like you are listening to them and when you talk try your best to let them know that you know what you are talking about, be polite but assertive
Learn to read their level of understanding of the specifics of what you're selling, and prepare to adjust your pitch accordingly. Some very smart people have very little understanding of marketing principles or tactics, and you can really impress these people with what may feel like basic things if you present it in a way they can understand. 
Always aim for a maximum width of 600px to be safe, the height is "endless"
Eloqua should already be able to fit the image in an optimized way for email, if your template is set up for it.

You should research "eloqua email best practices" for general tips though :)


>I have some experience in dm and I’m confident I can pick up what I don’t know.

Small note, dont be too cheap.



Basically hinting at the fact you'd like more companies like them that can fork you some money.

Better do this before you saturated all your leads on that one offer and people stop clicking through.

It depends, are you looking to benefit out of the relationship outside of payment? If you're looking to increase your traffic to your Facebook page or a website, you can have them put your page link on their site as a back link. 

Either have a contract for x-amount of leads or for a set campaign.
First off, what is their goal with the traffic you are sending? 
 Advertising costs are usually calculated on the amount of traffic going to the website or blog and not on the follower amount.   


If I had to hazard a guess I would say around $100 dollars as 140,000 subscribers is a lot of potential readers for this sponsored post. Purely a guess though, If you could provide your unique visitor count and your CTR then I could give you a better estimate.  


Hope this helps. 
I would charge them on a CPM based on monthly post reach. Whether or not your users are actually clicking should not be your concern (it should be their job to optimize their headlines). If you're putting a post in-front of your users, then the media company should pay for it.

Because they are likely monetized through ads, lets try to figure out how much they potentially earn for 10k clicks to their site.


Lets say you share 5 stories a week. So 20 per month, and each story on average brings them 5k clicks. That would be (5 stories per week x 4 weeks = 20 stories x 5k = 100000)

If you figure 100,000 page visits, they'll earn anywhere from $500.00 to $1000.00. Figure out how much of a % you want. Or you could also do a flat fee, or bill them monthly based on clicks. Don't go crazy here - find a good balance that you're both happy with. 

Honestly, /r/adops would be more helpful in helping you figure out how much the traffic is worth.
Post it on other websites like Medium, Quora, etc with links back to the website. Backlinks will help your SEO and make sure to include a content offer that provides value for the reader.
[deleted]
One of the below ways of content marketing is also the best:

You can also select a topic related to your niche from Google search.

Then take two to three references, understand the subject and then create the content in your own words. The content will include the keywords you want to rank for. But don't do stuffing. The content should appear natural.

Publish it on your blog.



Aside from that my only annoyance is when clients host on really crappy shared environments. Usually will mess with site speed etc and usually hard to convince them to spend more than 3 dollars a month. 😂😂

A way to easily issue delegate access like go daddy would be brilliant. 
From a hosting perspective there is a huge amount of competition and many which are already optimised for serving Wordpress. So assuming you are not going to be buying a server farm but reselling instead, I think the most important thing is you make sure the performance and reliability is rock solid.

Im not sure digital marketeers are your best market though, unless you want to target people who are starting to get into it. That said what might be quite useful is if you offered a pre configured installation of Wordpress which included a carefully curated set of plugins - for SEO, sitemap generation, affiliate link tracking, social media publishing, FB pixel and google analytics installed etc. Maybe bundle in some premium/paid licensed ones for added value. Better still develop your own and brand it all up as a package.


Adobe Creative Suite...and Facebook Blueprint creative inspiration.
Powtoon- for video and infographics

Magisrtro for Video creations

Canva for image and banner creations

If you hear nothing, or they don't supply details, create a dummy account and make this account admin on each page / social network. Remove your main account as the admin. (You can start with this step, if you don't want to wait for them)


Now it's their problem :)
I’ve been waiting for a subreddit like this!
Great and have subscribed.
Cool idea.

Personally, I can't remember ever following a narrative through a company's content. Like you say, I see their content intermittently so I can't follow a story if there is one.

I think it's better to have content with a theme instead of a distinct narrative; something that the user recognises is part of the brand. 
Yes. Take a look at youtube company Sugar Pine 7 they do a masterful job of creating a narrative based in loose reality. I believe this could be applied to a B2B or B2C company on any level. World building is an amazing grabber for content and if done right the narrative will have your audience thirsty for more.

I'm going to try posting the entire anthology when I'm finished uploading the comic, should be a nice piece of content but I don't know if it will get significantly more attention than a usual post from me.
Hi,

As far as online content is considered, you don't need a narrative. you are not writing a fictional novel. The content should be precise, worthy of readers time, informative and free from any unwanted rubbish that is unimportant. People nowadays are short on time..so make your effort count. 
It depends, if you are selling something professional or serious stuff then, its not suitable to use narrative.
But for more interactive and attractive way of delivering your content. You can use narrative.

Visit my blog if you are interested.

amanchandravanshi.in

Thanks. 



What I can say is, you can get some online credentials but it's going to be extremely hard to get your foot in the door to work for a company. Most companies look for an educational background in Marketing or quality experience. But if you want to get in the field without any educational background then Hubspot and Google has some good online certificates you can get.
I recommend studying university. If you can't then try to get free jobs in exchange for your first testimonials. This way work your way up to paid more difficult jobs. Get into community too, be active there. 

Please explain in detail.
I learned digital marketing and (almost) everything that goes with of from Lynda.com & similar sites. I think you should start there if you want to educate yourself. Then maybe be a marketing assistant or something of the sort first
SEOpunk is 100% correct.

If you're starting off, I suggest you do a small customer survey on Facebook and conduct some research in your customer personas. 

From there you will get some good insight into what  they do, what they're interested and how they search. Do a customer journey map, from keyword research to your site and how you intend adding value to their lives.

If you can show them than you're more than just someone earning money for leads, then you'll be onto something. 

What other value can you add on to what you're offering. Think about that. 
SEO Punk is right, write for the intended audience.



Don't be a salesmen.

Google is now looking to return not only the most popular (most links) content but, the content that best answers the searchers intent. And by 'best answers' I mean most thouroughly. You may have noticed blogs/websites starting to now post a TL;DR with bulleted lists explaining the short answer and then going on to dive deep into the topic. This *can* help getting into the Knowledge Graph but, also serves to the 'most complete answer' that Google is looking for.

Don't consume yourself with finding just the right keywords. Write the article, add some relevant media then kind of step back and look at the content as a whole. What's the main purpose/question answered? That's your main keyword. 

Content can have a long lifespan as well. Updating old posts with relevant/timely information can work just as well as creating new content. (sometimes better).
After doing keyword research, make sure you use those words on your homepage, titles, etc. Create some blogs, whitepapers, etc and ensure you have a clear call-to-action so visitors can learn more/ take action. There is also research showing updating posts after a while is helpful (i.e. adding a relevant paragraph or two). Posts can't be too long. 2,000 words each is not unheard of but adding a bunch of smaller ones each week won't hurt.

After that, look for similar posts with lots of powerful backlinks, write a better version of those articles, then approach those linkers to see if they're interested in linking as well.


Make sure you have Search Console enabled and keep an eye on everything there.
Think like your customer. What information would be helpful to them?
Gain two years working experience AFTER getting your university diploma and you can work in mainland China. I recommend Shanghai.


A successful, 'powerful' marketing strategy involves a lot of moving parts all working together. 

* Make sure all your data is being recorded. Tracking codes on site for any paid channels. Google (even if you're not advertising, you need to be using google analytics), Facebook, etc. Understand why you need advanced tracking on some pages. (Remarketing, conversions/leads) 
* Understand what a marketing funnel is and how to set one up using tools like leadpages, mailchimp, etc. A/B test your emails and landing pages. 
* Understand the basics of SEO and employ best practices when writing copy -- you need to consider the customer and Google's algorithm. 
* Mobile first design -- make sure things load quickly on mobile and usability is great.  


These are just a few of the necessary items for the beginnings of a powerful strategy. Typically, there would be multiple people working on such a strategy, because many of the things I've outlined (Analytics, SEO, Email Marketing, content marketing, design/development, etc.)  are specializations. It's near impossible to execute a great marketing strategy on your own, while testing things and making sure that you're keeping up with the latest trends/policy updates.  



&#x200B;

- Start with a target audience, maybe a persona if you're gonna actually use it 
(segment - target - position) 
- What's the customer journey look like? This will help you decide which channels are appropriate for your persona.
- Set some channel objectives, what is the purpose of each channel. Smart goals are one way you could do this. 
Once you know who you're trying to hit, where they are etc you can being to put your plan in place for messaging, keywords, content strategy, (compass and calendar creation) keep them agile as things change all the time.

As far as I'm aware (I'm an apprentice) you want to look at the percentage of conversions. 
Look at what lessons you can learn from each page



This is sort of subjective. If you're focused on the conversions/conversion-rates from paid search then it comes down to what your budget is, what you're doing with the email addresses/gate info, and if you have an established target CPA (cost per acquisition) for a download. 

That landing page with a 66.67% conversion rate can probably inform some of your content strategy and brand positioning going forward. The audience for that ad may be smaller, but they also may be a better fit for your content/services/whatever you're selling. That said, sample size of 14 clicks and 2 downloads is still to small to make any big assumptions.

&#x200B;

Have all these ads been running for the same amount of time? The page with the higher traffic and higher volume of downloads is currently providing you more value ONLY IF you've spent appropriately on it, and the right people are engaging. 

Here is the question I’d ask myself if I were you:
What stage of the customer journey each page is created for? On some stages (consideration, conversion) visitors are more inclined to convert than on others (awareness).


So, before comparing the success of two pages, figure out the big difference between them.
How can you be spending $13,000 a month without pixel tracking?


Either way, my argument for using Facebook ads would be:

\- Deeper analytics, i.e. Ad Recall Rate, Engagements, Tracking

\- Ability to A/B test with different objectives i.e. awareness, video views, conversions




\- Test and actually run different CTAs

\- Scheduling ads ahead of time

\- Then eventually running a sequential campaign 
Optimizely, Google Optimize -- very easy to track, very easy to install.
I know the founder of effectiveexperiments.com

Lots of good A/B testing tools out there. Doing everything manually is a lot of work, and manually tracking results. How are you actually deploying the A/B tests/running versions of pages alongside one another?
There’s plenty out there. Did you do your research?
You’re correct. If you’re running an A/B test, your audience will be split 50:50 at random, where half will see ad A and half will see B. This will allow you to determine a winner.
On the other hand, running multiple ads to the same audience will just push all ads at the same time, and then depending on which performs best Facebook will show that ad more. 

For your second question, you’re just trying to determine a winner for al the variables, as quick as possible, right? I’d be interested in a strategy for this, as I find conclusions for all the variables take a long time to determine. Multiple A/B tests and a lot of money. 

Does anyone have a solution?
I would be very interested in knowing if there are any cheap alternatives because SimilarWeb and Hitwise are ridiculously priced just for personal use
most of them are at $99 per month, really need to find a software soon
Try Serpstat, their lowest plan is $19/month. Didn't fit my needs but might be something for you.
This is digital marketing but a generalist. I've been in a similar role and it was a lot of fun. The problem I had with being the jack of all trades is that I never had time to really dig deep into each trade's specialization.

I would hazard a guess that your employer possibly isn’t aware of just how much you do, seeing as you oversee digital marketing in its entirety. A larger marketing department would perhaps have managers of each channel (social media, PPC etc) working under you.

Comment to follow
F
Yes. Literally you can set it up to copy your Google Ads campaigns and auto update so you don't really have to touch it outside of normal optimization.

Bing was smart and copied and integrated with Google.

&#x200B;
If you're currently getting Adwords certification, it's probably also worth getting Bing certified too, yes. It can never hurt, and depending on your company's or client's needs, running Bing campaigns can be a very useful skill.

I'd recommend getting Bing certified unless maybe you just have no extra bandwidth and you'd be pulling yourself away from other projects or education that are more immediately valuable. (This is all assuming you're in the U.S. market. I can't speak on Bing's reach outside the U.S.)
 Sprout Social is a good alternative for Hootsuite. But I am not sure if its has the feature that you are looking for. You can schedule and monitor posts from  Sprout Social.
Spredfast is pretty popular. I've worked for companies who've used them and they seemed really impressed by it. I for sure know that you can do very specific entry details with their software because I helped manage a few client's social accounts. 
I have done a campaign for a similar company.

We did:
- pre-roll video ads on your tube targeting individuals searching "diy fire damage restoration"

My first thought is paid search. Then you can intercept people who are actually searching for fire restoration services. 
Paid search and bid aggressively because that vertical is ultra competitive. 
Paid search and paid social

It wouldn't be the whole campaign but could be a good component to include for future customers.
Lots of ideas.

- contact matchmakers locally and strike some kinda of affiliate marketing type deal with them. Try sell good guy image as your company does a noble work.

- contact some good bloggers that write article on fire and make affiliate marketinf deal with them.

- Reach out famous instagramers and make some kinda of affiliate deals. 

- Upload some youtube videos of drills and random work. Promote good company image in those. Maintain a channel of 20 videos


Marketing is an art of selling. Learn the art, hone your skills. It is the future. Good luck 
- Build a website in WordPress and promote it on FB/insta, AdWords and with Content. 
- Collect email addresses and use mail chimp to send an email campaign
- Connect Google analytics and track measurables

I would work on creating organic audiences.  Try to build an IG account about X and grow it to 1K, 10K, 25K.  Build out a pinterest board.  



Where do you live?

Edit: typo
I'm currently a placement student and to grow my knowledge, I have found reading Building A Story Brand by Donald Miller is really insightful and will change your perspective on Marketing and also give you some great ideas.

A company called DigitalGrads do a free online digital marketing course and once you’ve completed it your profile goes on their ‘hiring hub’ where you can get an internship / a job 
You should be looking for an entry level position where you can learn on the job. Try to find a job that will let you try different things -- analytics, social, programmatic video and display, paid search, seo/rep mgmt, etc. 

Personally I think paid social both in terms of campaign fulfillment and analytics/data analysis is a great place to specialize. Companies are more willing to hire youngsters for those roles and there's lots of room for growth.

Maybe trade desk or choozle?


The hard part about fashion is that it’s one of the most saturated niches there is and you really get one shot at creating repeat customers - which is especially difficult when ambiguous sizing/returns are factored in. I might recommend consulting with pro ecomm marketers. It’s expensive, but eventually it takes more than an entrepreneur or a small team to continue growing the biz.
Are you using faceboook/instagram advertising?

And do you have your Facebook Pixel installed?
Dude, you're basically an alchemist as a digital marketer. 

Firat and foremost, most companies don't know a lot about marketing. They don't even know the basics of running ads. 

Edit: If your looking to land a job, look towards the big companies that are lagging behind in the digitalization journey. They already have a lot of money and can pay a lot for someone to come in and start streamlining their marketing processes. 


You just need to be a little selective on what jobs you choose. 



It's making sure you market a product or service that you know how to market. 

For example, I would never ever say yes to a marketing job for a pharmaceutical company, a pet supplies company, or even a consulting company.

I don't know jack sh*t about what their audiences want. 



The marketing mechanics are always more or less the same. 


All this can be learned in a week. It's just knowing where to click and what settings to avoid. 

But it's the text on the ads, the content on your website, the approach to solving pains, that really matters. 


By niching down, and by only marketing products and services you KNOW how to market, you will have an extremely bright future. 

So, the next time you search for a job... If you don't immediately get 10+ ideas on how to improve the marketing or how to reach more customers, try saying no. 

Because when you niche down you eventually will become an authority in your field. 

When you're an authority, you'll get a higher salary and you'll be asked to stay.

When you're asked to stay in a company, they can offer you stock options for a good price that you then can sell for a hefty amount. 



I had some similar thoughts recently. I think Digital Marketing as a whole is booming right now. Lots of new tools, advertising platforms, and different strategies. It wont be going away any time soon. 


Regarding actually landing a job.. if you interview but dont get accepted always always always ask what you can do to strengthen your resume. Find out what kind of skills they are looking for. I refuse to believe its simply "we need someone with a batchelors". Maybe they want someone that knows facebook or google analytics. What I would do is go on my own and learn everything I possibly can. That way anything they ask me, I can confidently say yes im famliar with it.

Its a long and interesting road this marketing world. Its also always changing. If you're into all that.. skys the limit.

Good luck! :) 
I worked for an agency in LA for over 5 years. I learned everything I could possibly learn but got burnt out. I have also done freelance work with some success but sustainable. I now work I house for a marketing department and love it. Pay is good, pressure is low and I still get to use a ton of new platforms.
Register for all the attempts at building local directories and fill in more details then anyone else did.

&#x200B;

The guys pushing these sites tend to pimp built out profiles more then you would expect if you get on a good up and coming platform at the right time.
Free? There's nothing free anymore, I guess) But I would advise you to register your business in local cataloges. However, you might find that many would require some fee for business claiming.
No you can disable the comments for a post, you can even delete them, but you can keep them for approval


Freelance content writing for engineering firms etc is a logical option.
One thing you can start out by helping different companies to maintain their online presence and also update in different social media platforms. You would be basically working as a freelancer or permanent employee depending upon company policies.

Good luck.

Partha
Social listening.  Search #omg or #wow to see what is everyone excited about

Let say lots of people are into buying certain brand of home decor. You can monetize in a ecom site. Building the ecom site and applying your marketing knowledge to make it your next portfolio items. 

Of course u will set up all Analytics u already know to track your progress. And use ecom site to test the effectiveness of your ads campaign, from creating audience,  to ad sets, keywords,  the actual ads

It is important to continue to refine your skill application and build portfolio asset whenever you are in your career.

It may not be ecom site u want, or maybe promote a certain brand as affiliate,  etc.

Hi !!!

**If you bored:**

1: I suggest Help people in Reddit & Quora, you can easily help people in your niche on quora which is more pro Q&A website with your knowledge. Plus you will learn by helping people learn by their feedback and others Q&A in both Quora & Reddit. Do it for an hour / day, believe me you learn a lot and help people if you subscribe to your fav topics or subreddit.

2 Use Feedly app & Pocket to learn from your niche everyday (10 minutes to 1 hour or more per day) to keep connected to your domains and learn a lot

&#x200B;

**If you want earn more:**

1: You seem the perfect guy to Start a blog (at your rythme) and provide good value to people... So I suggest you to Blog too. if you want later you can monetize your blog or make a side business on it. This would be YOUR side project: Help people trough a blog and share your experience.

&#x200B;

**If you want some business ideas:**

\-POD (print on demand) trough instagram in your fav topic (but with some researchs ofc)

\-Dropshipping (the hot trending business topic) with a website in your fav topic (but with some researchs ofc)

\-Sale Coaching hours trough your blog and your knowledge

&#x200B;

Hope i helped you,

Manuel Drabor

&#x200B;


While you may not see this happening a lot right now, it will eventually get there. Note that Accenture, an IT outsourcing pioneer, is the world's biggest digital marketing company by revenue in 2017-18. 

But this doesnt mean you shouldn't do this course. The senior positions and client facing roles are going to be where the meat is for digital marketing professionals in your country. And the cultural context and client interaction part(which is a bigger portion of the work in marketing than in IT) is going to be stable and premium. 

No career track is going to be future proof. Go ahead and do the course, and it will give you a good ruj for 10 years. By when you will have experience and will not be in trouble.

[deleted]
Not much of an impact.  Maybe you'll find it harder if you're pricing your services low or don't have much experience, but once you gain experience, it won't have much of an impact at all.  

A lot of people find it difficult to work with offshore resources or just try someone in their local area more.  If you can prove success, just sell yourself accordingly and you should be fine.  

If it is twitter, retweet other content regularly. And reply promptly to direct msg and sb retweet your clients content and social mention. Create a twitter list will help you to monitor account u want to retweet from. 

Try to follow your clients prospects twitter account with the client twitter account.  Listen to them and reply to their tweet. Get to know them so they feel you care.


If there is a event or promotion. Film a twitter video or took pictures about it and post on twitters b4 and after event. That will surely make it more viral. It showing your events or promotion success. E.g photo with VIP guest, the crowd etc. Or if it is a promotion u can showcase the promotion prize or product not by itself but in hands of happy customer or illustrated the product on customer. E.g how a makeup look like on a customer make over

If it is Facebook, similarly tactic can follow. You can also create Facebook Group for your client that will touch upon the topics your client customer will be interested. E.g Quick Makeup Makeover can be a group for a makeup vendor. You can after warm up your crowd and built relationships in your group. Once relationships is built invite individually to fan page

Your fan page can talk about industry trend and answer common customer concerns may have b4 becoming a customer. Like what they will be worrying and resolve it with blog post. And once a week only to mention product or service offer. Be valued added rather sounding u want sales. That will help grow your crowd

YouTube wise you want to create awesome video that illustrates the benefit of the product or service and how easy to follow step by step guide. It is the video content that will drive the referral to affiliates or sales. Make sure video description and keyword are set for SEO. Of course include call to action and target link in description 
Get the certifications for Google Ads (AdWords) and Analytics, along with Blueprint. Blueprint could be a little tricky if you’ve no experience with running FB ads however.

Check out the free HubSpot certs in Inbound and Email - easy but respected.

Know each social networks different ad interface and setup - and all the different types of ads.

I’d try get a short (but paid!) digital marketing internship if possible, will help you stand out. As a lot of entry level roles will ask for some experience.


Use LinkedIn for job searches, and have an all star profile.

It is good that you are doing all the courses online but I recommend you to start a website as well. Whatever you learn from the courses should be applied on your website.
Best of luck.
I'd recommend spending at least a year or two in sales. It'll teach you a lot about how to explain what it is that you do to the layperson in a way they can respond well to. Some people go full bore into the technical details or building websites, managing PPC accounts, designing ads, which can also work, but the job market is much more difficult to enter if you only have back end skills. If you're also capable of being client facing you'll have more and better paying opportunities.
Where are you based? What city?
challenge yourself to get a site ranked on the first page of google. See how that goes.

Besides classic digital marketing skills I would also recommend looking more into data-driven skills as those will definitely be helpful for digital marketing and will help you easily stand out from other job candidates.

More specifically I would recommend courses for Excel, SQL, Basic Stats, Google Analytics, Data Visualization and Storytelling/presentation skills.

Add him through facebook ad manager as a moderator.
Add the IG profile to your Facebook Business Manager, and give them access through that.

Or, use a management tool like Buffer and give them access.



Fb opens insta. So when you add them on FB you add them on insta too. 
Use  LastPass. Super clutch for this. Basically let's you share your password with freelancers and whoever so they can log in but they never see the password. Once you are finished you just revoke access 
We use fullstory and heap. 

Fullstory is addicting...  you’ll watch your users navigate around and learn how to make a better User experience.  
If a website, hotjar.
Digitally, we use linknexus, its a platform with analytics and the ability to set if/then reactions.
[removed]
It depends on what you are selling. If you are selling creative web services, it makes more sense to have a website designed by you rather than tools like Wix.
Check out Webflow. It has a higher learning curve than wix or wordpress, but you can customize everything and learn the basics and structure of HTML. 

If you’re strictly trying to retarget users who were interested in your initial comedy posts, I’d highly recommend running Facebook video ads and retargeting people based on the % of the video they watched and create a funnel like that.

If you’re also looking to run ads on Snapchat or are looking at running Geofilter campaigns, we’d be happy to help or give advice. Also, we have an article outlining the most common mistakes people make advertising with Snapchat filters - it could also certainly help you get ideas on your ad creatives (even if you’re only looking at Facebook right now):
https://www.buycustomgeofilters.com/blog/top-10-mistakes-you-could-make-when-submitting-your-geofilter-to-snapchat
Like and responses are great, but how many times did the ad convert? Were you reaching your true target audience, or just people who found the meme comical? If you're looking to have someone manage your online presence, drop me a line!
Are you sure that you actually need a company? Learning the art of Facebook / Google Ads is not that difficult. 


Using A/B testing, I decide what works best for me and improve my skills. I relly recommend following my advice (if you have some time, of course)
Check out marketingschool.io for a very informational, easily digestible podcast!
Never use a template. Templates make your writing look creepy and spammy. People recognize a template in a second, even from the topic of your letter. 


Before sending a letter, learn as much as you can about the recipient: from Facebook, LinkedIn, their website. Then write FOR them. 

Think this, imagine you as your potential client. Would you respond to the canned email which doesn’t tall to you directly but in general OR would you respond to a letter, which was written for you and includes information about you and for you?
Considering the English quality in the post, I'd think it isn't going to be fruitful for either side 
Find an internship in your country. A US-based company won't even try. 

Also, make up the experience: take a couple companies and develop hypothetical campaigns and marketing plans for them. But your English must be stellar or you can forget about doing any actual work in English. 
Sorry there’s no way for a company to go through such a fuss to hire an intern outside their country.
My favourite is Klaviyo!! It's like Hubspot but so much cheaper. Perfect for ecommerce!!

I would try that app you just mentioned..

Anyway there are lots of cool tools out there you can use for your digital Marketing campaigns, as these are what we use at our agency - www.tagetmedia.com

• GoViral - For Social Media Marketing
• Lumen 5 - For Digital and Social Media Marketing
• Animaker - For Social Media
• Moz Tool - For Digital Marketing
• Buzzsumo - For Digital Marketing and lot more
This is the official Google resource for creating UTM links which should give you all the info you need. https://ga-dev-tools.appspot.com/campaign-url-builder/
https://ga-dev-tools.appspot.com/campaign-url-builder/

Use this to build UTM parameter and check with one source you find it in real time(analytics) as campaign.
[https://ga-dev-tools.appspot.com/campaign-url-builder/](https://ga-dev-tools.appspot.com/campaign-url-builder/)

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpdpKcijh1Y](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpdpKcijh1Y)
why are you charging clients if can't manage tags
Hi! I'm struggling with this as well but one of the easiest things you can do right now is start a blog!

Start writing about the things you have learned so far with actionable advice for others. 

Drive traffic to your content, keep track of this in Google Analytics and do a case study on your blog. 


Another thing you can do is answer questions on Quora. Build some authority and get your answers ranked in Google. I've seen a few people accelerate their careers based off of their writing on Quora. 



You never know who might need your help. Even a simple post on Facebook saying that you just started out as a digital marketing consultant and you're looking for clients would help. 

I hope these tips were helpful! 



Remember, search engines go for relevancy. The more relevant your article is to the people searching for your keywords, the higher up you will be. 

Try to make your articles easy to read (short paragraphs, short sentences, simple words), at least 1500 words and find a nice structure. The easiest way to make sure your articles are to structured is to go: Motivation (why should I care about this article and topic); Information (the actual info, knowledge, experience, expertise about the topic); Action (what steps to take next, how to implement)


Also important are SSL/https. (yes, even without any data input fields on the website) as well as mobile optimization. So, making sure, that visitors have a great experience, even on tablets and phones. I guess wix makes sure of that automatically in your case.

Hope this helps and good luck :)

PS: Forget about backlinks and social. Way to overrated. I've had articles on #1 with literally 0 backlinks and social mentions in  high-competition markets, by simply having the best information in the article. (I guess read time i.e. time on page is something Google looks veeeeery close at. 
Depends on your skill set. If you code HTML/CSS/Java/jQuery/etc. than go for the UX positions. If you're better at photoshop, indesign and final cut, look at design roles. You will make the most money at the position you will have the most value. Junior UX jobs and mid-level design stuff is basically the same. 


&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*
Buffer. I can't recommend any other and I've used several.
For scheduling I use HubSpot. 

Creative? As in, creating or being a creative? Facebook Creative Hub for mocking up ads etc. 

Depends on what you’re creating really. 
I'm a fan of Co-Schedule to link campaigns and visually see my content calendar. I haven't used eClincher before though.
I would recommend Jarvee. Lots of useful functionalities too.
Google spreadsheets with lots of conditional formatting to make it more user friendly.


Edit: some more thoughts/notes

It’s cloud-based so everyone can view updates in real time, better than an excel file. You can add a column with text that links to the creative. You can simply create folders in google drive as a directory. Or even link to the FB draft to see it in a native context.

We use Google Suites so there is a degree of hierarchical security/permissions. But as long as you are careful with the file share settings you shouldn’t be exposed to any undue risk.
SEO does take time... but link building is a part of the SEO process and could refer traffic sooner than later. Think about having your website listed in local business directories, community associations, on freelance sites or use guest blogging etc.  The outreach you do to build backlinks also helps to build your professional network and business opportunities. The links will help build page authority but you may also pick up direct traffic from the listings themselves. 
Have you tried to build a following on LinkedIn yet?  If you can grow your network there and actively share interesting content, that may help speed things up a bit.

No. SEO takes time.

[Imran md ali](http://www.bootcampmastermindprogram.com/bootcamp) 
Try out some content marketing maybe through blogs, LinkedIn pulse, LinkedIn company page, ask your clients if you can have a powered by one stop email hyperlink in the footer of their emails (give the ones who agree a discounted rate) 
There are so many ways to do this. I would try Google Ads, that seems to work the best. You have to make sure you create the ad very carefully though. Take your time and optimize it as best you can. People will be searching for the keywords you are using in those ads and since you're as is the first they see, they'll be more likely to clink your link. 
Your first port of call would be to connect with influencers who are posting around the same topics as your blog, share and comment on their stuff so that later down the road you can leverage those connections to promote your own stuff.

You have to give  a little to get. But influencer outreach will be the key to growth.
Expect a marathon, not a sprint. Every person that comes to your blog that isn't a family member is choosing to read your post over doing something else on a website with a million followers (like here). It's going to take a while for a lot of people to make that choice. 

You should spend as much time promoting your blog as writing content. Honestly, I spend more time promoting my blog than writing. 


Hope that helps! Good luck. 
First and foremost, produce great content. There are hundreds of thousands of blogs on the internet. Think why would anyone, spend 5-10 minutes reading your content rather than spending that time on YouTube or social media? That's because they're looking for something. You have to focus on delivering that. Even if your post is a 5-min read, the readers will be agitated if they don't find what they were looking for! 

After you're done with the content, look for promotion techniques. Reddit, Quora, Medium are some great platforms for content marketing. Don't just go on putting up links to your posts in random places. Find questions and answers that are related to what you just wrote, and write a snippet of your answer along with the link to your blog. Slowly, when you sincerely follow this without offending the search engines in almost anyway, the traffic will increase. 

Have a nice day.
Do not forget to add images. People do not like reading blocks of text for a long period of time, so use pictures to break up paragraphs and make it easier on the readers. 
http://todayonsocial.com/2018/04/26/instagram-stories-uploading/ Instagram updates their stories platform

Twitter Promote Mode: https://business.twitter.com/en/solutions/twitter-promote-mode.html
[deleted]
[removed]
Create value to the reader! Try to create the best content possible so its gets the reader excited about visiting/reading your blog. Its going to be tough because they are so many blogs online that are very similar, so be unique! Also, know the reader and who you are writing too, this is a step a lot of people forget about. They dont target a audience, so they never get success. Aside from that the guys above did a good job explaining the rest. Best of luck! Contact me for any more questions. Thanks.
Find a similar product that targets the same people and make a look alike audience. 




~Tracking~
If they’re a business profile or verified account they should have the ability to add links to their stories (being one of the former should tell you about their professionalism too). Via the links in the stories you want to be setting up UTM tracking so you can track and monitor traffic in the target websites google analytics account. From this you can see if users took the desired action or just had a browse and abandoned.

The coupon option you added it also great (make sure it’s unique) as people might see that and head straight for the website not following a URL link. You’ve also got the issue of people telling friends who never saw the social post and using the code. 

Ultimately what matters is you’re measuring an ROI against your advertising spend. If it’s a good return on investment then it’s a good sign this influence is your right audience. 

~Closing~ 

At the end of the sale or through the sales funnel you want to be capturing their email details and getting them into your database so you can market to them instead of through the influencer. 
Solid tips. Thanks! The main issue is that most people are way too lazy to do all of that each day. At our agency, we call it the "i'm tired syndrome" Most of our clients just simply don't have the time or don't know how to get started. 
Real-world experience
Google University

But most of the experience in digital marketing is diving in yourself, taking the free Google exams and HubSpot exams. There are one-off programs and other online schools that you can get more knowledge from too. 
Communication 
Self - Learning

[https://landing.google.com/academyforads/#?modal_active=none](https://landing.google.com/academyforads/#?modal_active=none)
I agree w/ @shirrapwns. I started w/ Google academy courses & upon completion, you will get a certification & become a partner. Take the AdWords fundamentals & analytics course 1st

I would also like to mention that there are a lot of credible YouTube vids you can watch but the best experience is hands on
Use Neil Patel Blog. Also, create some campaign from your id after reading that blog.
This is where I started to really understand Google AdWords. Unfortunately, some of the info he gives is a little out of date or not the best practice. 

https://www.udemy.com/the-ultimate-google-adwords-training-course/

Still, it's a great place to start. 
Academy For Ads!
I am not a digital marketing expert, honestly. I am a Virtual Assistant - a worker - an executor to implement your creative digital marketing plan. I am with you. :)

Have you done webinars? You can pre-record a webinar/how-to session then promote it as content. Get people to sign up for it by providing their email and then create lead nurturing content such as a blog post highlighting the uses of your services/products. 


Run a referals campaign on FB using your email lists/customer match ie: Get a $xxx gift card by refering us! (Works best to segment past clients in database)

Adwords RLSA and bid on top competitor brand names after a user has visited your site. This shows they are in market and generally brings in quality leads.


Hi

You can use LinkedIn for Lead Generation, it can be very useful and the leads you get will be perfect. But for generating leads from linkedin it has a small process and should be followed. You can also use some tools via linkedin for lead generation

Digital Marketer HQ is pretty good: http://hq.digitalmarketer.com/


That said, I think their courses have something for all skill levels. You start with the easy stuff, and by the end you feel like you've gained at least some expert knowledge. 

Marketing Conferences, specifically the ones designed for Agencies might lead you to some better marketing mentors or strategies.

What else have you tried?
I would highly recommend you check out Udacity. The courses are very hands on. The courses the come time mind are: 
1. https://www.udacity.com/course/google-adwords--nd124
2.https://www.udacity.com/course/digital-marketing-nanodegree--nd018
3.And if you want to get into more complex stuff you can read up on advanced google analytics https://developers.google.com/analytics/

There are several areas of digital marketing, creative, branding, SEM, SEO, prgrammatic, etc. From your comment that you're into photography and cideography, maybe you could get into the creative side of digital marketing, e.i. learn how to use photoshop and create logos/designs.

In terms of profit for freelance, it depends on the area you're in obviously, but for example, I have billed $100 p/h (AUS) to clients. The job was for writing copy for a website. 
Here’s what I have been using
Ataama for my domain
Leadpages for a landing page builder

That's good that you can do photography and videography. As, you mentioned that You are doing freelancing for photos and videos for the companies which is nearest to your home. See i suggest you that you can sell it on online sites or applications so that you can earn money for your photographs and videos and also take an order for photography and videography.

Here are some suggestions regarding your questions:
1) We are using YouTube, Instagram, Facebook & also twitter for promotion startups, product sales and hotels.
2) Sorry, We are not using Auto-responder so we are not going to that topic.
[removed]

1.    What platform do you use?

2.    Auto-responder - does that usually come with the platform/program? 
Not always. But you can install plugins to enable auto-responders to your programs or platforms. 

Average profit varies depending on your industry/niche. But if you are serious about your project and keep a tab on the latest trends, digital marketing can bring in profits. 

I'd also recommend checking out [https://blog.notifia.io](https://blog.notifia.io) they have around 600 Growth Tactics to grow your company 
[removed]
I think you can do it. You know how to self start and you'll be good at picture related stuff and have some material you can use. 

I'm sure photography is a good background to have for something like instagram marketing. 

You'll have to learn about a bunch of different things. I'd start with the google or facebook 'ad university' programs and go from there. I'd also start learning to write copy.
Yes absolutely 



Reddit, google, YouTube 


Yes! You have the eye for great visuals, and because users and audiences are demanding more visual content, i think it will work to your advantage.
AdWords is the way to go. Enlist your products in the best Product Price Comparisons sites (this worked perfectly for me).


Use Pinterest to show off your products, run promotions and show customers wearing your products (with permission of course.)

Leverage holidays and weekends. Run promotions to capture customers’ attention as customers are in the mood for shopping during holidays and weekends. Create a blog and post the latest trends, gift guides, and style guides on a regular basis. You can also post reviews of your previous customers. Plus you can use the blog and your site to run promotions too.

You can also offer to guest post on fashion blogs in return for a link to your site or some other acknowledgement of your business. For more tips on sales prospecting, check out this [article](http://www.lusha.co/resources/lead-gen/sales-prospecting-10-tools-5-killer-tips-gurus). 

Golf bloggers and key influencers on social. Look for those who tweet / post often about gear rather than swing tips etc. Send them some samples and ask if they'd be happy to wear one for a photo which they'd post. It *might* cost you something but you'll only know if you ask them to do it first. 

What type of Facebook ads are you running? 
Ya, I would be interested to know what type of Facebook campaign you’re running. If you’re running the wrong one Facebook is not able to optimize to get people to where you want them (which is a converted sale) I’m sure this will be some easy tweaks. 
I'm running four Facebook ads optimised for traffic (two different split tests) and when I run the retargeting campaign I optimise for conversions. I am also running a carousel Facebook ad optimised for traffic using the professional pictures of my products with an invisible mannequin.
You should be running google PLA’s. They have the low cpc’s and relatively higher conversion rates. For that. You’ll need to upload your product feed into a google merchant center account and then go into AdWords and create various campaigns. You set a bid and you let google do the rest. No need for keyword monitoring. 

If you’re not monitoring your web traffic through a google analytics tracking code then you should start that because it’s free. It will tell you more about the type of people that are reaching your website (or if they actually are people) 
Following articles may help - 
http://www.speakinglamp.com/blog/integrated-marketing-a-branding-solution/

http://www.speakinglamp.com/blog/raise-your-brand-with-seo-strategies/
Can you ask your old corporation to remove your old profile?
this might be a bit of a crazy suggestion but why dont you ask them to remove it?
If you create buzz and inbound links for your new business it should over time move higher in search results. Focus on your PR, social media, blog, and partnerships, and SEO will follow naturally. Buy Google Adwords in the mean time to make sure you're on top of search results. (besides everyone else's point about asking your previous employer to remove the old page.)

I was thinking about it and then I went to all of the sites they were working with and most of them offer free courses. It is more work to put a curriculum together yourself but you can get all the info for free
it's worth it if it gets you serious about digital marketing. It'll give you a foundation, if you don't have one, and then it's up to you to build expertise in the individual fields of digital marketing. I've found that committing to something that you've paid for, gets you more serious about it. I'd go for it if you're not an expert already. 
What are you trying to do? 

- Are you attempting to get a job?  Digital marketing degrees/nanodegrees can definitely help you get an interview, but we're going to need to display a deep understanding of digital marketing.  I recommend going to Warriorforum.com and begin answering questions.  Get into the habit of being a quality authority and eventually you will be. Don't be afraid to answer questions you don't initially know the answer to.  It will require research, but this habit will make you more resourceful, which is the ultimate skill in this industry.  Also read Scientific Advertising by Claude Hopkins, and Ultimate Guide to Adwords by Perry Marshall.

- Are you trying to close clients?  You either need real world case studies that prove your worth, or a deep fundamental understanding of the customer's needs, a nanodegree isn't going to mean much, but certifications do look pretty on your website, and can boost credibility *slightly*.

The best thing you can do is get yourself some live data and experience. (Google offers a free demo Google Analytics that is actual live data from their online storefront if you’re coming up short there.) 


I hire for digital marketing roles all the time—the #1 thing I look for is evidence of curiosity and eagerness to explore. If you’ve taught yourself the basic platforms because you wanted to or had a side hustle you learned to market on your own, you’re getting the job over someone who just spent the last two years keeping the lights on in a mature search account and managing a content calendar at a big company. I can teach you anything else, but I can’t teach you to be curious.



At 29 (Three Years ago) I took a $10 course on Udemy about Youtube and then applied to Freelance jobs on Elance.com now (Upwork.com)
I would recommend taking the Google Adwords certification class. It takes about 2-3 hours to go through all the study materials and the test isn't too hard. It's a perfect foundation for learning different types of digital ads and SEO. After that, I'd take the Google Analytics course. With those two alone, you'd be very qualified to help any website / client improve their SEO. 

Some great tools to use are: 
1. Moz Chrome Extension for SEO
2. Hubspot Blog
3. Quicksprout blog
4. Neil Patel Blog
  
Tried Hubspot Academy?
Basically i learnt from youtube and udemy too. All the learning is useless if there is no practical hand-on. A bit here and there, hard to focus as there is always this problem of info overloaded. There are DM courses selling 2-3k which I refused to pay. I advise to specialize and focus on one area you are really interested in and then move on from there, it will be easier this way rather than dabbling on all, which can be quite massive.
I learned Adwords the hard way but with great telephone support from AdWords. Learn from step by step tutorial from videos, not from books.
For me, it's best to first, learn how you learn. I'm not great with books and rote teaching methods. I'd rather be thrown in at the deep end so I can learn to swim than read a book about swimming techniques. 
Some people are the opposite. Knowing this will speed up the learning process. 
Currently doing a copywriting course at the College of Media in publishing.

 
Apply for some freelancing jobs online, start small and grow from there.
If you got a client then your client give you one website for doing SEO, it's best chance to learn practically SEO and digital marketing. 
Otherwise, you can create a blog on WordPress and be doing SEO for that blog, it's another way through learning SEO. 

[removed]
[removed]
Today, Internet marketing, or online promoting, is advancing into a more extensive blend of segments an organization can use as a methods for expanding sales - regardless of the possibility that your business is done totally on the web, mostly on the web, or totally disconnected.
Learn Digital Marketing Online and Grow your own business from scratch!
Yes there's a lot of things you have to do (all running at the same time) while you also have to be always updated with any changes and news. But this is probably what I like most about Digital Marketing. It keeps you motivated.
At my last agency, I was managing digital projects for dozens of clients. Our team had too many active clients, and we’d be putting out fires constantly. That, with keeping on top of the ever-changing platforms we use to execute campaigns, made for some tough days. We always made it happen, but it never felt like we were a well-oiled machine. Many of our clients were other agencies with traditional marketing history. They never seemed like they had it 100% together either. 
I'm aspiring to get into Digital Marketing, I've around 6 years of traditional sales and marketing experience. I'm self learning topics in Digital Marketing, What will be the most effective approach for getting a DM job?

You can also check some of the certifications by Google and Hubspot. The videos in these courses are quite well.
Best advice is Study up and practice on your own; build your own ecommerce website and grow it. Digital marketing is so broad that you really need to specialize in one area and grow from there. Areas you could make a career out of ... social, sem, SEO, analytics, ux/web design, content writer, email specialist. Once you specialize in something you can start working on other things and pad your resume. 
Do you use instagram? If yes, How many followers do you have? 

There are many website/portal/social media will allow you to start marketing and there are many companies allow to work on affiliate marketing, if you want i can share more details where you can get some knowledge. 
There're several nice and free courses out there, you can find very interesting things! I also follow some blogs that are cool, they have weekly newsletter with practical tips worth seeing:
https://www.kaleighmoore.com/newsletter/
https://coschedule.com/blog/
https://saijogeorge.com/best-marketing-tools/#
Mozblog Hootsuite blog buffer blog ignore their self promotionalism

youtube

coupons for udemy courses sorted by category.
https://www.real.discount/search-page/offer_cat/digital-marketing/

beware serial marketeers 
niel patel 
tai lopez 

any video that talks  about boosting x or y and then promoting a Saas or any kind of promotion.



Some good answers here: https://www.reddit.com/r/Entrepreneur/comments/7poge0/online_marketing_absolute_beginner_where_to_start/
You Should Join Classes In Digital Marketing.
Or Start A New Thing By Searching On Social Media Marketing , SEO 
Neither. Get your AdWords, Analytics, and Hubspot certs. Then get your Facebook blueprint.
Thank you. Looking into those right now. 
Hi! I took the GA course and I found it to be worth it! Only if you are a total noob, like Google Analytics scares you noob. Coursera is good, udemy is also good. As for coding, learn the basics of HTML and CSS... but don’t go to crazy, you can find debating do it for you on fiverr that charge nothing. Plus, doing detailed work drains your creativity IMO... 


A lot of my previous interviews we discuss strategy with clients. Implementation is important but that varies a lot among the different industries and can be taught. 

It really depends on what you are interviewing for as digital marketing have so many disciplines. If it's B2B and lead generation then I would ask them to design a campaign to drive email signups and how they would execute it. I would provide them the fake business name, the industry, and the customer base. I would provide them a campaign goal since it's an entry-level role. I normally would expect the candidates to ask these question if they were in a higher role.


I ask “technical questions” that can be answered in many different ways to gauge how holistic their understanding and approach is.

And example of this type of question would be something like, “what is the difference between a conversion in Facebook and a conversion in AdWords?”

An average candidate might note that the default conversion windows are different (and that you can align them more) and setup for each is quite different
An above average candidate might note that Facebook recorded actions are linked on an FB ID which helps deduplication and for cross-device, etc

Much like everyone else, I think the answer to your question starts with clearly defining the role. Is it primarily an account management position? Is it a dedicated search specialist? Social? etc. etc. 
I also agree with camboramb0, that critical thinking ability is more important than there immediate understanding of implementation. One helpful exercise is to give them some materials on a real client, and ask what there approach might be to meeting a specific KPI. 
Just some thoughts. Good luck in the hiring process!
I haven't read them all but I willing to bet most have already asked for clarification of what you mean by "Digital Marketing" as there so different areas and practices of digitsl Marketing.



The best way I feel is to create a problem and ask the candidates to write either a blog post or white paper/e-book of some kind to address that problem.


Ofcourse theres the risk they can just google the content and copy paste so being unique and specific about the problems and challenges will be key, but i think this will be by far a better approach than trying to create some sort of simulated digital marketing excercise.

just my two cents. I wrote this on my iphone, please excuse any typos/grammar errors.

Note that these are NOT mine, I don't have original sources to cite, but I save these as I find them from various websites:

1. Between videos, ebooks, blog articles, photos, podcasts, webinars, SlideShare, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Pinterest ... there is a lot of potential content we should produce for inbound marketing. How do we do it all? (Look for candidates who tell you that you should not do it all -- but that you should start with the content that is most important to your prospects and customers, and focus on that. They should also have a plan to talk to your customers and prospects in interviews or surveys to figure out which social networks they use and what type of content is best for them.)

2. Referencing a sample: What was the objective of this piece? What was your role in developing this piece? What was the business result of that piece? How much time did it take to execute this project? Did you come up with this concept? Or was it a collaborative process? Why did you choose this image (or binding, or color palette?) What was your thought process, and how does your creative process work? What was the design challenge? How did you resolve that challenge? What results did this piece achieve? What was the client’s feedback, and can you supply contact information for this client so they can give you a reference? What people, processes, and/or budgets did you manage when you did this project?


4. We have a new product coming out in three months. What would you do to launch it? (This'll show you how well a candidate understands all the different tactics of marketing and how to tie them together into a holistic plan. It'll also give you insight into how creative they are and whether they can come up with new and interesting ways to do marketing.)

5. What has your biggest achievement been at ___? What results there that you produced are you most proud of? (You can then also ask the same question for other jobs they've had. You're looking for someone with a pattern of taking things from X to Y--with Y being bigger/better/greater than X.)
Go on fiverr and people per hour good luck!!
Service pricing is very subjective. The price is whatever someone is willing to pay. I have clients that pay retainer and monthly, I have some that just pay commissions (I prefer those), but without a reference point try the numbers you came up with and see if they work. Always be experimenting.


If you present well and are confident, don’t underestimate the power of face to face interaction.

Another way would be to get some freelance gigs as another said, build a portfolio, start a blog on that portfolio, and attempt to capture inbound traffic. Ideally in the end most of your new business will come from referrals. 

Sorry for long post but this stuff can be complicated. Good luck and any other questions, just ask.

Edit: Oh and you might be able to strike up a deal with another marketer on something like LinkedIn wherein they refer you to clients that are too small for them to take in exchange for you referring clients back to them who might be too big for you to handle at whatever experience level.

[removed]
This is a good question. I avoid amazon like the plague, so I don’t know, but I thought I’d give you a bump. Tracking where particular sales come from is tricky sometimes. Particularly if you do a lot of soft marketing across a large variety of channels.
While I don’t know of any tracking pixels for Amazon. Something you can try is sending users to your site, tagging click outs to the amazon listing and consider any lift in sales may have to do with your advertising effort. 

Tools:

Use hootsuite / buffer for scheduling posts

I suggest you to increase your charge!
Don't sell your services cheap

For propoal template and audit templates watch these youtube videos https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rD9uwjQ_1dE 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LxLmzQVwYDw
what is the problem with your drop shipping site? out of curiosity.
Yeah. But Facebook isn’t going to continue with it.
[Should You Be Worried About Facebook’s New ‘Explore Feed’ Feature?](https://mavsocial-com.cdn.ampproject.org/c/s/mavsocial.com/should-you-be-worried-about-facebooks-new-explore-feed-feature/amp/) 
I'd recommend [MavSocial](https://mavsocial.com), it's better than Hootsuite or Buffer. It has great UI and you can easily schedule posts on FB, Twitter, Linked & Tumblr. On top of that, you're able to check any responses from your accounts (like comments or messages) right from the dashboard, you would not need to open your social media accounts individually.

We've used MavSocial for our [Canada](http://edmonton-real-estate.com) & [Philippines](https://www.therealestategroupphilippines.com) Real Estate brokerages, and so far, it's been responsible for us closing hundreds of listings. It's that effective.
Buffer has a good user friendly interface. You might want to try that out as well  

We offer a forever free plan that should be good for you to check us out. We currently support Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Google+. Instagram is currently in the works and should be launched next week. 


Thank you.
i use social pilot  - very easy and free
HubSpot 
You can use buffer. Its very good. Even a free version have lot of features.
Buffer and Meet Edgar were what we transitioned to from Hootsuite. Both have user friendly interfaces, but if you're looking to schedule Instagram, Buffer is the way to go. Our testing method was to try out one account using the free option and upgrading once we worked with it awhile. 

Outside of MailChimp’s own templates, I’d like to see some others as well. Some of their templates are a bit rigid.
[deleted]
I can probably do something for you-- pm the details or style you had in mind and I can give you a quote
I don't have a ton of advice here, but just one nugget: don't get hung up looking for benchmarks. You will never find the benchmarks you are looking for. Set your own after a couple months of running social media and search. Every business is different. 

Help us out. You say mom and pop store. Do they have to buy items in person? What percent is foot traffic vs digital traffic? Is your goal to get people into the store, or to shop online? What kind of store is it?

3. What industry are you in? Get your ads to drive sales. Worry about benchmarks later. Sales speak to small businesses. What good is a click-through-rate if they don't see sales?

I said a prayer for you. Good luck!


1) Creating a new website and blog that is SEO friendly takes time. I'd check out Moz for more info, they are one of the best SEO companies around https://moz.com/

2) I would recommend setting up a Google My Business account. This is great for Local SEO.

3) As for social media, you should build a content calendar so that you are posting on a frequent basis. Try mixing up the content so that some of it is original and some is from industry publications. Great way to build social relationships.



Facebook has "list targeting". You can upload an email list to your Facebook Business Manager and then create a lookalike audience from that list. To find this, go to "Audiences within your business manager. Under "create audience" select "custom audience".


Google can create a phone number for your ad that redirects to the desired phone number so that you can track calls. 


Be sure your site content includes the towns/locations that are served by the company. Think of what people will search for, e.g., “toy stores in [town]”.

Order of importance IMHO:

Website content, optimized for SEO and responsive so it can be easily viewed on mobile devices 
Google Analytics /Tag Manager set up on site
AdWords once site is up and running
Email plan /blog
Local directories such as Yelp, Google Business

Don’t overthink it. Do the best you can with the info you have and work steadily to execute. Google Analytics and Google Data Studio will provide most of the reports you will need. 

Good luck!
Start-ups don't have resources. They face a problem the book language calls 'liability of newness'. They try to make a dent in the market which, in most of the cases, is already saturated. I agree on two of the mentioned strategies in your article, viz SEO & Social Media, but I wouldn't really recommend PPC or email marketing since both of these methods sit well with firms that are established or at least have lived through their infancy stage. PPC is not very different from traditional ATLs, only that it's done over the web. As for email marketing, since you're new in business you don't have a lot of prospects or potential list of subscribers you can follow up with. 
.... In general very helpful article. Thanks for sharing.
Nice Post. I just want to add that, one should also be updated with what is happening in the industry.

https://twitter.com/50poundsocial
https://twitter.com/neilpatel
https://twitter.com/shoutmeloud
Great post!
You should number each tip. Post is confusing 
Intercom - I like their texts and find the information very useful.
Econsultancy - UK centric but overall I enjoy it an find it useful. 
'Digital marketing' is super broad to be honest. 


If he's interested in media buying and trafficking, then DCM and DBM are very useful to know and be certified in. There is a huge need for Ad ops and traffickers in general. I'm probably bias being that I work in Display and Analytics. 
Why not both?, you can shoot a video for your yt channel and extract the audio and add a few edits to it (such as podcast intro).

You are practically producing one unique piece of content and leveraging it to make a podcast out of it. It shouldn't be too much "extra" work doing it this way.

Cardinal path. 
What`s your Facebook Page link?
Depends on price and the performance of your creative assets.

If you have a high ctr% most of the time you can get a better cpc by buying cpm. If your ctr% is low then cpc is usually better.
Depends on which keywords you're targeting. Also, clicks are useless. You should be targeting conversions. I could give you a million clicks right now if that's your performance metric.
Whereas CPC generates more volatile revenue than CPM. 
Getting more clicks depends a=on many factors like high CTR, good budget, ad relevancy. It just can't be determined based on the pricing choices.
Non-white people? That sounds weird (racist).


Do you have any expertise now? How specific is it?
I recently had a two week interval between full-time jobs. Interestingly, I got two clients by doing job interviews. The jobs lasted the two weeks, but I had the option to keep them going. I didn't want to take that route yet, as I'm still developing my skills, however it had the potential to be a good base.

My suggestion would be to look at job applications online. These companies have the need, maybe you will be able to fulfill said need in a 10-20 hour a week basis, and get paid a premium. 

Best of luck!


We truly live in a world where people want to research for themselves, not be told by you how good you are (directly). So you should fully expect, if you don't have past work or a network to get you business quickly, to spend 3-6 months working people and adding content to your library of work, and another 3-6 months to close a deal.

Minimum 6 months (if all works well) and average of 12 months. Don't feel bad if it takes more like 18 months, but if it does take that long, that client ought to be a BIG one. Hope this helps!
Marketers are setting more an incentive on purported "soft skills" than at any other time. This can be seen everywhere throughout the digital marketing world with numerous employers hiring for identity sorts and "impeccable fits" for their organizations. There are currently various advanced organizations who have gone up against the casual yet uber-quick paced Silicon Valley style approach (where representatives are required to act naturally helpers, cooperative people and marvelous table tennis players all moved into one).

http://www.credforce.com/spotlight/resources/storm-the-digital-marketing-career-turf

Read a paper copy of UnMarketing.

http://www.unmarketing.com/



I would say if you are really interested in learning digital marketing start with learning how to deploy PPC campaigns via Facebook, AdWords and Bing Ads, with these you will learn how to drive traffic to a website as well as conversion rate optimization (CRO) in order to drive macro and micro conversions. To get this experience first learn about it through signing up with Google Partners (this will teach you everything there is to learn about SEM through AdWords), and repeat this process with Facebook Blueprint and Bing Ads. The next step after reading the guides from Facebook, Bing, and AdWords is to get certified from each since this will build credibility. In addition, learn how to build websites via WordPress and maybe other CMS platforms like WIX and Drupal. 

The first alternative to getting experience is I would reach out to your own network of friends and family who have small businesses websites, where you can offer to manage their PPC accounts for free; in the event that they don't have a website for their business, I would suggest offering to build one for them via WordPress.

The second alternative is to essentially create an e-commerce website or a small blog via WordPress. Through this, you will be able to learn about SEO too, as well as deploying PPC campaigns via Facebook, AdWords, and Bing in order to get traffic to your website and possibly get more people to sign up for a newsletter you may have. 

A third option you can consider is after getting certified in all three: AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook; apply for an internship (even if it's unpaid) and get real world experience this way. 

Therefore, your best bet would be to either go with the first alternative or third one since when you are applying to bigger agencies for digital roles (PPC and SEO), you will have a track record on your resume. I would also consider working on the strategy end of digital as well such as digital media planning or digital investment since these roles tend to be easier to get into and also by having experience in running PPC campaigns via Facebook and Google AdWords, you will bring more value than candidates who never had any digital experience since you will have a firm understanding of how these digital platforms work and it will help you learn more complex areas of digital such as programmatic and mobile advertising. Also, I would even consider digital Ad Ops as well since there is a lot of relevancy in trafficking the campaigns via a pixel (something that you will learn in Facebook and Adwords PPC campaigns). 


BTW I am currently in digital media planning and from having this experience in running PPC campaigns on Facebook and AdWords, as well as obtaining certifications in Bing Ads and Google AdWords, it helped a lot in understanding digital and helped me sell myself during the interview with what I learned from my previous digital internships. 



If I were you, I'd take some classes in coding, as well. Strong technical chops in html, css and JavaScript will give you a huge edge and make you more versatile, as you'll actually be able to do technical SEO, which often requirese fundamental coding knowledge.


I say get specific with your specialty within digital marketing. Do something that sets you apart from the cheap companies that automate paid ads or outsource them to an unskilled non native person. 


As our population grows almost every industry will grow, and digital marketing will become a necessity as people spend less time watching TV and more time on their phones and computers. You need to present yourself as a way for businesses to bridge the old gap to a successful utilization of the digital landscape. 

I don't think it's oversaturated at all. There are so many different avenues, products and services that all can be assisted with GREAT digital marketers.



https://depictionsmmcc.com/display-ads-for-programmatic-campaigns

Also- Do what interests you/what you love!

I would learn a lot about customer personas and journeys. Digitalmarketer.com is a great resource for training. I would recommend checking out their blog and podcast. They have a monthly subscription to learn key topics and they also have certifications you can take. Their Customer Value Optimization training is where I would start. 

I think if you like what you're studying, you should go for it.  The best idea is to market yourself.  Your expertise and skills are your brand, so you must build that up.


Best to figure out if the competitor is providing a full package. Maybe you can get in with great service or fresh ideas. Usually you can get a "line item" of some sort, even creative production. Also it can help to develop a relationship with somebody in the company for a while to get a sense of what they need.

Nothing is better than a spec which demonstrates how they can generate more revenue, though. Everybody likes that! I'm in marketing too. Nothing beats LinkedIn connections and engagement though. 


Or conversely you may be able to be the one in a less expensive market competing in another territory. What's your company's main focus or strength?

I would consider it, if it was cheaper.
I just don't want it to be some Udemy-like/level course that's way waaaaayyyy overpriced.
It's a new program. Looks pretty good and I've heard good things. I'd definitely do it if I had the cash right now. 
Competition on social > paid promotion > link to clients website > have an email sign up to a newsletter as part of the entry process > run for 1 week. 

Not the best quality leads, but quick and easy. 

This would obviously be dependent on the topic and the clients business.




Then I sent a single email to each one, copy & paste message that changed to each one slightly to make it semi-personal. Done the same for other categories and had better success, like architects and beer distributors. 

I learned a lot from doing this, like how to diagnose a web site quickly, and compare competitors for analysis. Also, learned that a message like that needs to be targeted to a specific service like "web design," instead of "marketing services." 

I also learned there are a lot of web design companies that specialize in industry like schools, or architects, or whatever, and sometimes they can offer your services like SEO or content, etc. 
Aim to understand both and you can compensate when the middle-man (Facebook/Google) fucks up your water-tight plan
Both.  Don't limit yourself.  
SEO/SEM analytics is instantly measurable financially, and most businesses keep score in dollars. And whatever you know about the topics (SEO and SEM are two very different things) will be yesterday's news in 6-12 months so you have to continuously evolve to stay on your game.
Seo SEM definitely! 
Photoshop + Giphy.
send him an email and simply ask him?

Get all your images, arrange them, set the time and done.
For video, Giphy is my go-to. It lets you archive easily, make private if needed, and most importantly it works great with Facebook/Twitter and it gives you the option of a source link when clicked.  
  
For stills, you can learn how to use Photoshop's Timeline tool to make them fairly easily yourself.
Adobe photoshop+uploaded to giphy,
 
https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/how-to-create-animated-gif-quick-tip-ht

No one really cares about your education, they are more interested in how what you know and what you can accomplish will make them more money, be easier to work with, or add reliable results. 


Demonstrate your value in the very way you pitch yourself. 
Agreed with /u/MADEmattEB. What part of DM do you want to get in?

Sounds like a focus on Big Data may suit you. Mining and managing data to reveal customer insights and utilizing analytics to make decisions and prove marketing value to the client. This ties in profitability, revenue, customer retention, and customer satisfaction. 

Something worth research.
Have you ever thought about approaching inbound marketing? Inbound is the first fundamental shift in marketing methodology for the digital age. Instead of reaching out and invading a potential client’s digital space, it challenges you to create engaging, relevant content which is easy for desirable prospective clients to find and – crucially – is valuable to them once they do. Feel free to read more about it here, http://www.prodo.com/what-is-inbound-marketing/
An interesting read all in all. Well done.
It says the page can't be found :S

If you need event tracking for submission forms, it is fairly difficult and call tracking is not supported, as per the support team.

Even basic conversion tracking, like adding conversion pixels to headers, is not as easy as other platforms. If you have any other options, I would strongly advise to go with one of the other major platforms (e.g Wordpress, Magento or Shopify potentially if E-Commerce).
Like to start up from scratch, or learn more about analytics? 
I'm doing the Google Analytics Academy courses at the moment and there's one called ecommerce analytics you might be interested in.

how about be honest about the job your posting.

you're not trying to get someone to open the click bait title, you want them there for the content.
I'd like to connect with you if you are hiring a remote / freelance assistant in digital marketing. I'm looking for new projects at the moment . 
I would search through job descriptions in similar industries and pick and mix points that are  relevant to your business.
Sounds like a job for more than one person, definitely. 


Not a deputy mind you, but a partner who can take responsibility for a full category or two from you here. Paid vs organic is a good split in duties, as is production vs promotion/analysis.

Also I think that most companies do too many email newsletters. They're less valuable than people think. Replacing them with automated personalized notifications or a bigger monthly newsletter might be more valuable and less expensive 
Hi there! Good luck in your search!

Good marketers know that the core focus of any business is the customer. Here, the interviewer or company rectuiter is, in a sense, the customer. So, the objective here is to tell that person how you can help their company and how you can support their mission.

I recently got a job at a company that helps build businesses. I took care in the interview to express that I have become intensely focused on becoming a business strategist, that I'm reading books to this effect, and that I would be proud to be part of a company with a core mission of helping businesses succeed.

So, I suggest looking to the company's mission statement for inspiration. For ClassPass, a good answer might say something about how you believe that health and mental well-being are very much connected to one another, and you would be proud to be part of any company with a mission of keeping workouts fun and exciting. You might also mention how the industry was in desperate need of disruption and are impressed with ClassPass's ability to create a new model in a very crowded space. 

A caveat: Any answer you give has to be genuine to you. Interviewers can see right through BS.

A few other things...

It's going to be tough to get in at a place like Facebook or ClassPass with little experience. Unless you know someone who already works there, your resume for any given job is probably up against 200+ others, and only 10% of those applicants actually have the skills and experience to get the job. So, you then have to shift your focus to gaining skills and experience.

Here's what I recommend:

1. Start smaller. There are dozens of smaller startups out there looking for candidates with less experience (they know they can pay a little less if the candidate needs some skill development). You can learn about these companies at meetups and tech events. You can also gain experience by volunteering with friends' companies or other small businesses.

2. Do what you can to improve your skills. There are so many online courses these days, and many of them are free. Start with Google Analytics training, AdWords certification and the free HubSpot training programs. This will be a clear indication of your interest in digital marketing, which you can add to LinkedIn and discuss in interviews.

Well you can be honest and say that you admire their work but are mostly excited and curious to learn from a high growth environment. That's enough.

Answer the question directly and succinctly then pivot to talk about things you DO know about like your interests and curiosities.

You'll be fine.
It seems like you're overthinking it past what the company would be interested in hearing. Simply saying something like 'I know as a customer how important digital services are and I want to make it easier for customers' as you have said would be enough for an entry level position. The why obviously explains the 'what' as you've listed to be you like marketing, start ups etc. I would give the why do you like these some thought even just for self knowledge. 

For example I would say I love the field of digital marketing as you can create a great environment for customers to engage with the business and see positive results from decisions you've taken. I love being able to fine tune aspects and prove that digital decisions were worthwhile for the business to take. Having done none of this yet, you can tailor an answer just to say that this is a field you've been interested in due to the potential for X and as you've done so much self training you are looking forward to putting it to practice to benefit a start up. 

Some advice for any interview would be to keep everything as honest as possible and remember that you are looking to see if they are a good fit for you as much as the other way around - just remembering that may take some of the pressure off of you. If someone grimaces when you mention your year of experience either you didn't get enough experience for the role or you don't want to work for that type of person anyway. Keep going though because if it's something you really want then you will find a way in eventually. It took me a year after graduation to find my first role. Hope this rambly answer somewhat helps. 

Archive the chat thread.
I fucking love Neil Patel. 

1) **Convert!: Designing Websites For Traffic and Conversions** by Ben Hunt

2) **Global Content Marketing** by Pam Didner

3) **All Marketers Are Liars** by Seth Godin

4) **You’re My Favorite Client** by Mike Monteiro

5) **Marketing: A Love Story: How to Matter to Your Customers** by Bernadette Jiwa
Awesome list!
Very Informative thanks a lot 
Very Informative thanks a lot 
I find conversion on FB to be so low that I only use it for impulse purchase products and brand awareness. 
I find conversion on FB to be so low that I only use it for impulse purchase products and brand awareness. 
Simple start is to list some existing agencies and determining what qualities after similar and which are different. You can make a "strategy canvas" (Google it. It's the only redeeming factory of the otherwise useless book Blue Ocean Strategy). 

One that is done you will know a booth more about the market. 
Is this 2012?
Sprout social. I use crimson hexagon 


Assuming you are interesting on more detailed analytics here are a few (very robust) tools:

Agency and client side I have used:  
* Marketing Cloud (Radian6)  
* Sysomos   
* Nuvi  
* And a bunch of smaller ones at one point or another


I currently use Nuvi. Its real strength is awesome easy to digest reports that can be easily published to .pdf and sent to the "powers that be.". Simple and clean interface and scaleable team management structure. 

Hope this helps.
Hootsuite is great for that!


Keep in mind that analytics services can only track your follower growth going forward, due to API limits. Once you sign on, they will begin to count your followers going forward. But getting historical info is tough. 
LOL the market is not saturated quite yet my friend. You might have to take a job at a company you don't necessarily love to get some experience and build your resume, but after you do gain experience in digital marketing, there are plenty of jobs to be had in the industry, at cool companies to boot. 


Work as an unpaid intern for 4-6 month on a stipend are get great experience or get an entry level position out of the gate and you'll be fine. There are lots of jobs, starting pay is kinda low but within 3 years you'll be much higher if you push yourself.
Digital Marketing can pay little or pay a lot. It all comes down to you. Most of us are closet nerds and not big on the people interaction aspect... but that is usually taken as a good thing. The more awkward we are the more clients tend to trust us. No one wants a sales guy. Marketing should not be something you get into for the money though. If you do then you are sure to have a rough go coming out of school. If you are in it for an adventure or because you have a passion then you will do better. This industry is vein, yes that is true. The pretty little white girl does turn heads. I think that is more because pretty little white girls are usually the opposite of nerdy. However an awkward Asian will always be the more trusted authority over us pretty little white girls. That is not racist it is just how our industry is. If it is your dream then own it! You will find that it is an incredible adventure as long as you are willing to work for it. 

If it's less then try one of their ad tech partners they may have the infurstucture (sp) to support you

You are 100% right that this is a poor way to go. I run multiple social accounts in the technology and previously entertainment / finance space. If you want some direct help, I'd love to be an unpaid social media advisor, research your best channels, etc. 100% free. 


I think we can assist each other. 

PM me if interested and we can talk more directly about all of this. I'm passionate about RPGs and would like to experience the world of game marketing first hand. 

I hope I can be of assistance. 

-Mike

I'd say at the higher levels, it's your typical executive / professional job...get to the office earlier, stay a little later, and be part of strategic guidance. You have a seat at the table, so to speak.



A. Want to become a CMO / make their entire world about marketing.

B. Those who don't have a strong technical skill set (analytics / coding / forecasting / web dev skills etc.). 




That was a really good piece of content. So many articles are usually just fluff pieces on content marketing. This was a technical showcase in the context of a business problem of which you offered solutions. We need more content like this, not the crap where everything is "enchanted" and "magical". Thank you so much. Will be tuning in for more.
Interesting read. The pop up was annoying - how it comes up before I can engage with the article. 
Thanks for this :)


The percentage of persons who navigate from a particular page on a website is Bounce Rate.
Interesting concept, could serve well in addition to / instead if email gates
Targeting will play a big role in the success of your Facebook ad campaigns where you're trying to generate awareness and actions.  Know who your target market is, and not just age and demographics. Build personas for the different type of customers you have (empty nesters, first home buyers, newly married, new parents, etc.), target based on them, and make sure the content is relevant to them. Facebook offers a ton of targeting options so take advantage of them and test them to see what performs best. Play with targeting by interests, behaviors, life events (definitely try life events), and buyer profiles.

You can also upload a list of your customers to Facebook and create a list of people to target who have similar characteristics. I'd still recommend layering some demographic and interest targeting on top of that though. If you have a referral program you could also market that to your list of clients to try to drum up some leads.

Also, in terms of downloading leads from FB lead gen ads, Zapier also offers a solution. We use this service and have it connected to our mailchimp e-mail list so the new lead is automatically added to our e-mail list and promptly receives their first email from us upon signing up for our email list. I believe Zapier is free if you aren't collecting more than 100 leads per month but if you are the next level up is still affordable.
I have done ads on Facebook for multiple projects. The only ones that seem to be successful are the lead generation ones. That being said, I do find success with retargeting ads. 

You have to remember for the most part people don't go to Facebook to be sold something. You can find groups of people that are trying to learn something and you can gather people that way if done properly.
In my experience optimizing for website conversions is your best bet if you're new to the Facebook ad game. Create a "squeeze page" lander with a custom opt in form for a nice little email list. Furthermore your ad needs some work, you want to create more copy and image variations rather than just the one so you can see what is working or not. If you want you can PM me and ill try to help on the ad side of things. IMO I'd write this --- TEXT: Are you searching for a new place to call home? Fill out my FREE personalized home search to find your forever home. Headline: Find your perfect home in Farmington (can play with this a bit)
New Desc: Join hundreds/thousands? of happy home owners who have found their dream home using this free personalized tool. 
Try changing Learn More to Sign Up since that's what they are doing and use that CTA in the copy too so people know what they are doing. Lead Ads > landing pages many times because they are straight to the point of collecting the info you want with a shorter path than clicking to website, loading website, reading website, signing up on website.

Possible also that targeting could be improved if you aren't seeing the results you desire.
A colleague of mine completed the course and certification and is a big advocate for it. He's currently performing digital marketing for a handful of sites so he's a big believer in all of this training.
Is it worth it for personal development? Maybe. The good thing about any kind of course is that it presents it in a structured and coherent way. Even though all the material is out there and you can search for it, assembling it into a manageable structure is difficult.

Which course specifically are you looking at?
Hmm that's a tough question. I think that AdWords already does this a bit, no? Like, if you have multiple sitelinks running, Google will run various sitelinks against each other for your ads. If you look at all the sitelinks for any ad group/campaign, you'll see which ones improved the CTR and conversion rates the most.

[Per Google](http://adwords.blogspot.com/2014/01/better-ads-via-better-sitelinks.html), "Pure A/B testing isn’t possible because each sitelink must point to different content." They also recommend changing sitelinks less often than you would copy for an A/B test.

Thank you for your analysis. You have provided really valuable information and I was interested while reading. However, I would like to add one more platform to your list. You might not be acquainted with it (https://www.retailecarts.com). 




I had a quick look at LinkedIn.

If we take LinkedIn as an example, The Q2 2015 numbers for LinkedIn are estimated at 380 million users globally. 30% are estimated to be from the United States, so lets say [114,000,000](http://www.statista.com/statistics/272783/linkedins-membership-worldwide-by-country/) United States LinkedIn users roughly. 
 

Also Reports mean nothing if you don't research a representative sample.  

really good tools that could help us doing Digital marketing easier!.
Glad you like it, thanks for reading!
Che? 
Absolutely awesome....genius mix of 2 of my favorite things in life
TL:DR some people get creeped out by the thought of being stalked for personal info.
[deleted]
I think both Adwords and Analytics certifications will be necessary if you want to work in an agency setting, and will certainly help out if you are looking for a digital marketing job. 



This is a great question and I'm glad you asked it as I too am looking to see what certifications are valued out there. 


Google keywords planner
You can use Semrush, Ahrefs or Search Console get your analysis finding keywords gaps to get new keyword ideas or related keywords from your competitor
Moz will help you to do that... you have explorer by using that you can find out that
Blatant self promotion: We (Searchmetrics) can do that by a) looking at current rankings (including search volume, CPC, etc.) or b) actually analyzing the content in your page. Both URL based of course.

Apart from SEMrush, all of the solutions listed above support only one of those approaches.
SEMrush has an On-Page SEO Checker for discussing pages. It's in the Projects section.
The best thing to use is your brain for that. Plan the content on your pages around ranking for a primary keyword and 2-3 LSI keywords. I typically don’t do more than that to keep the topic focused. Also make sure you have at least 1000 words of quality content (no filler), good tagging, schema markup, internal linking, sub 2 second page load time, etc
Reverse image search on google is the first thing that comes to mind.
Images: Google Reverse Image Search, TinEye

Text: CopyScape
sendgrid
Mandrill, mailgun


1. Find websites that are relevant to your client that are high quality and authoritative. For example, if your client is selling CBD oil, try and CBD/Cannabis related websites.
2. Find the emails of these websites.
3. Create exceptional content for your client's website, for example, 'The Ultimate CBD Oil Guide'. 
4. Reach out to the websites you found and encourage them to link to your 'resource'. If they say no, offer to create a guest post for their website that would be suitable for their audience and include your clients link in the post.
5. Make sure any link built using guest posts are 'do follow'.
6. Be prepared for most sites to reject your offers or ask for a publication fee.  


In addition to the above, I'd recommend creating relevant directory listings for your client and a few blog comments to diversify your links.  


To be honest, I'm unsure if you know enough to be providing SEO a service and are currently undercharging the client for SEO. I'd recommend looking for a company to help you out on this.  



Backlink from high-authority sites will give you that backlink diversity for SEO and will give you a nice link juice.

If you don't know where to start, check out **RankdSEO backlink database**. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of high-authority websites.

There are more than 270 guides at the moment. And a list of 1400+ websites that accept guest posts.

Outside of that, almost free way is to build PBN for yourself. But this is difficult and time consuming to setup.



Good question. Off-page SEO is tricky and complicated, and I don't understand a lot of that stuff myself.

  
What I can tell you is that if you're doing any content stuff then a good way to get SEO backlinks is to pitch your content to bloggers, journalists and freelance writers. The object is to pitch them your content so they write about you and link back to your website.

&#x200B;

Try researching a list of 100 or so press leads and pitching them with a personalized email sequence. Lead with telling them how you found their work and how much you enjoyed it. Then suggest a mutually beneficial collaboration which results in a backlink to your website.

&#x200B;

Highlight how they would benefit from the exchange, and use the words "you/your" at least 5 times for every time you say "me/I". Make it about ***them***.

&#x200B;

Think of it like a mad lib. It'll look something like this.

&#x200B;

SBJ: Hi {{first name}}, I  found your article on {{publication}} and want to collaborate!

&#x200B;

Body: Hi {{first name}},

&#x200B;

I found your article {{article title}} on {{publication}} and I love your coverage of {{topic/beat/coverage area}}.

&#x200B;

I was wondering, have you ever noticed how {{this trend is happening}}? I wrote about this on my blog, and it may be a good resource for you when you do your next article on {{topic}}! Here, check it out at {{link to your blog}}.

&#x200B;

Would you be interested in using it as a reference? Let's set up a time in the next week and we'll talk about it!

&#x200B;

Cheers,

&#x200B;

Your name

{{Your blog/company logo goes here}}

&#x200B;


Each campaign has different goals (pipeline build, conversions, yadda...). It could be growth in a particular market. Success in that case wouldn’t be CPM at all. 

Walk away. Or challenge them on their metrics.
1. Make an online store

2. Make the store look professional, relevant to what you’re selling, and not trash(optimize it the best for organic seo. You can watch YouTube videos about that.)

3. Use Fivver if you need to make a logo or a banner


5. Write blog articles about your niche


7. Wait. It takes time to see results

8. Keep learning about strategies
Why don’t you get supermetrics?
Yes, you can use Data Studio to generate reports customized to your needs regarding the performance of the paid channels. If you don't want to manually update the DS sources on a daily basis, you can use Supermetrics connectors, I believe that they have it all. But if you don't have or want to invest any additional budget to get Supermetrics, you can manually update a Google Sheets file on a daily basis with the needed data across your paid channels.

&#x200B;

I wouldn't rely on Analytics only especially if your goal is to check the performance in terms of leads & cost per lead - usually there is a pretty huge discrepancy between Analytics data and the paid platforms. Use Analytics to check sessions, new users and bounce rate (you have a direct connector in DS) and aggregate the conversion-oriented results directly form the paid channels (manually in Google Sheets or with Supermetrics).
Compare Facebook best practices with what they are doing on a campaign and creative level.
Is it a new domain you want to analyze or the existing one? If it's a domain that has been around for a little while, try using MOZ Link Explorer:  [https://moz.com/link-explorer](https://moz.com/link-explorer) \- free tool that gives you all sorts of info about inbound links, domain authority, etc.
Google. And hit and trial.


Also, take up a project and give your best.
I’m all about podcasts. People teach stuff on podcasts that you’d typically have to buy their courses to learn. Some of the best educational resources available.
Buffer has a great list on what you should be learning. They even link to some classes.  I'm on mobile so I dont have to link. But if you search their site it should be on there.
If you want to spend a bit of money, I think about 2-3k Oxford Uni Business School (SAID) has a on line disruptive digital marketing course which is meant to be good.

Else Udemy!
Definitely something you could do with an Arduino or Raspberry Pi.
Maybe you're referring to smiirl, try googling it
Regardless of your field/profession, it's never a good idea to quit before you've found another job.


&#x200B;

Work on the certifications \[google ads academy / digital garage \] and then search for a new job. 


You gotta try and try until you freakin' get it..


Cheers!
Just go and get a job. You’ll learn as much in 3 months as you did in three years doing your degree.
How much experience do you have?

I would tell you that I can count on one hand the number of people in my industry that earn 7 figures or more that have digital marketing degrees much less a Masters degree.... But I would have to chop off my hands because the number is 0. 

I know more than I actually have GEDs..



Edits.  Sorry typos talk to text.. you know what i mean..


 I received my Master's last October. I think it's totally worth.
What do you want to do with it? Ecomm director? yes.
I would think hands on experience would be more valuable. Also, you can get google certifications for free at ad academy.
No way. Get some experience and then go get a masters focused on Analytics or something along those lines. It will be infinitely more valuable. But whatever you do, get a few years of experience first.



I also plan to move to Canada and MSc gives me more points in express entry but that's just an added bonus ;-)

Digital marketing is one of the hottest topic of discussion these days because of the growing interest and heavy usage of different social media account by billions of users.

After completing my graduation I always wanted to open my business, but as I entered the world of business I found that every businesses are setting their business in different social media sites, and are enjoying the outcome of doing so. This thing grabs my attention and then I opted for doing masters in Digital marketing first, to take my business online.
In our marketingcat opinion, no, it's not. Better take a short course, start an internship and learn along the way.

Practices and tools change in crazy pace, and there is no second to acquired experience - yes, it will be more demanding and you'll probably feel a little in a fog. But you can achieve a lot in 6 months in terms of knowledge and understanding.

&#x200B;

Good luck Meow!
If you only want to be a cog in the wheel of a proctor and gamble brand or some similar then the 100k in extra debt might work out. Most of the successful digital marketers I know either have no degree or an irrelevant bachelors like psychology or music, and definitely no masters.
Traffic is a result of people visiting your site (of course), so you must be giving them a reason to visit! 

Start with your broad networking circle, and recommend people check it out. If the content and design is good people will return and Google will start improving your rankings. 

Focus more on SEO then do google ads, facebook ads and other social platforms if you can't do it yourself hire someone
Hopefully you have Google Search Console connected to your website. If so, look at the query information, and specifically look for queries where your site has impressions but the average position is > 10 (so on page 2+ of search results).

If the queries are keywords you'd like to generate more traffic for, build up the content on your website about these topics. Specifically make sure you are offering valuable content around those topics and answering the questions (if they are questions) people are searching for. 

Are you testing from the app on your phone or desktop? I’d imagine adding another redirect with linktree would only make it longer.

Android is slighty better than iPhone, but an option is to get a quick landing page built just for IG that's pretty minimalist to keep your load time even lower to make up for the browser delay.
Hey 

I can give you 4 services to make your small business into a BRAND
Hey!


If you can, spend a bit of money on paid advertising. Even just a couple of dollars per day, if you do it well, will get things moving for you. 

Good luck!


Go with your own ideas. Create title optimized title for your videos and may use just some keywords. Keep good thumbnails. Importantly, obey youtube's copyright and community guideline rules.
..
Best of luck...🤓
Aside from the basics of tags and titles, you need to think deeper. 

Create an incentive to share the video or tag friends. (Include a prompt like "Tag a friend to see how they'd solve this puzzle"


Get people talking about your channel

Share your videos with other people in the industry. 


You'll grow rapidly if you focus on these aspects.
Yes and yes. People seem to forget that google ads \[search\] are tailored to people who are lower in the sales funnel thus actively searching for the \[insert your product or service here\] in order to satisfy their need.

Facebook ads are more of a promotion thus you are creating the desire. On the down side, the cost will increase over time compared to google ads.



&#x200B;

Hope it helps. 
Also, in some developing countries, Facebook has more reach than Google.
It would depend on how much you plan to spend on each channel. I find Facebook to be very much a pay-to-play platform.
Depends on the industry, the goals of the advertising, and the product. 

$20 hat? Facebook 
$20,000 industrial lift systems? Google & remarket with a visual on Facebook to website visitors. 
Also, lower budget campaigns are always better on FB in my opinion because you can't do much on Google Ads with low budgets. Your best bang for your buck in that scenario is definitely Facebook Advertising. 
Yes I run both campaigns. Yes in some of projects FB ads have worked better than Google Ads. 


Yes, but your marketing strategy should be different between the two platforms because the user behavior is completely different. 

Facebook users are in browsing mode, so marketing on Facebook needs to be more attention-grabbing to introduce or re-inforce your product/brand to potential customers. 

And in turn, people who are now familiar with your brand by seeing a Facebook ad will then navigate to Google to do more research, and that's where they'll encounter your Google ad, perhaps among other competitors. Google users are already in the market for this product or are already familiar with your brand and are shopping around, so these are higher-intent audiences than those on Facebook.

To your second question, either platform can result in higher traffic or leads - it all depends on your objective, targeting and allocated spend.

Could be sales, leads, registrations... All sorts of things. 


1. Cost per lead/ Cost per impression
2. Engagement
3. Reach
4. Site visits (Event- Contact page)

Events differs based on what you are promoting. 
My manager didn’t give me any KPIs. we run a group of restaurants. i guess ours are store visits yet Facebook Likes seem to be all the rage where I am based. 
Sales should be the big one, but email optins, likes and shares are all popular too.

How could sales figure become part of marketing KPI? Easy if you're tracking sales conversions using Facebook Pixel. If you can show you're moving the sales needle with your campaigns you'll be your boss' best friend! :)

I'd say that one of the most important things is to be helpful for your users and potential customers. Everything else just needs to be built around it. 

If you want to be helpful, you will build good content that answers people's questions; you will use keywords as this is the only way to speak the same language as your users do; and you will be there for your potential customers through different stages of their journey.
Great question indeed.


&#x200B;

2. analytics -> funnels


&#x200B;

Hope it helps


&#x200B;

Alex Becker's Market Hero might have all this functionality built into one, but normally these are totally separate softwares.  I can say Shopify as a platform can do all this, but you'd still be using separate plugins to execute each of these functionalities.
Glassdoor is your friend here. 

And your salary should be as much as you can negotiate!
Pinterest has a huge female following, about 80% of its users are women. So if your in the fashion industry, it would be a great way to target and very specific market. 
Yes  Pinterest can help you to bring more audience as everyone know female use Pinterest more then male. So its also a opportunity for your niche because as you told that its related to fashion shop and dresses. As compare to other social media channel, you will get more on Pinterest.

Pinterest is good for Fashion & Art niche! 
Do this things :

1.Find the No.of Users using Pinterest for fashion in your Area !!!

2. Search for Google Trends and keywords !!!

3. Use GaryVee rule of 79/21 !!! Pinterest to be a micro part of Instagram


5. Go and Talk to your parents, peer groups, friends who are using Pinterest and why do they do it so..How often ?....Cross Question them and you will know much of the insights

All The Best 
Not a fan, switched off of the paid version and switching off of the free version soon full too but for retweets there should be an option under preferences that says "Use Twitter Web retweets" that would solve your one problem at least.

In these situations I would go heavily manual then using  a lookalike audience out of 1-2k emails of subscribers.

Best!
May be you are not targeting the right way otherwise Facebook ads are incredibly powerful. I would suggest you to try interest based targeting.
Are you trying to run ads to just the Newsfeed, or letting FB auto-select the placements?

&#x200B;

Just had a (semi) similar issue, and a well known expert suggested we let FB auto-select the placements.  I was hesitant given we want newsfeed traffic, but it ended up working.  They're smart enough to know where your ads belong based on the creative.
Facebook estimates are just that... what is the max people they could reach if everyone logins to Facebook that day. This rarely happens. If you don't have targeting that is limiting you then it's the fact your market isn't on Facebook everyday I would say.

Are you running Facebook because you have maxed out on Google and Bing? If not, I would look at Google and Bing first because you can get traction faster then on Facebook for SaaS product.



Is your software B2B or B2C? Or both?
What are you considering a conversion? Only a store visit? For geofencing I consider a call or any sort of click on the landing page (eg directions) to be a conversion. Most of the big companies track all those actions. 
What program are you using for geo-fencing?
I've worked on the freelancer and agency side (agency now) and did tons of eComm, hopefully I can add some insight. 

&#x200B;


&#x200B;

Freelancers are a bigger risk but a lot cheaper - if you think you can handle the slight increased risk of lower quality or less reliable work, it's probably worth it at your revenue level to go with freelancers (unless your expenses are well under control and you have more room). You'll probably be best off getting a few different ones to cover all of what you need vs. trying to find one that can do it all. On the other hand, one agency will probably be able to take care of everything, including the strategy.

&#x200B;


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/DigitalMarketing) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Hey there. I see you're having trouble with the AutoModerator on here. 

I started as a freelancer and am now scaling my operation into an agency model - I'd be willing to chat with you about options and see if we would be a fit to work together in any capacity.

If we're a fit, great, and if not, that's fine too. 

If we aren't a fit, I'd be happy to point you in the right direction.

Thoughts?

1. Setup
2. Managment Monthly
3. Budget Monthly



&#x200B;




&#x200B;

2. Monthly retainer for campaign management

The account and Campaign setup cost is for the first time as you will be doing the majority work initially and the I would recommend charging 50 percent of the monthly budget as a retainer. In your case it will be

If the client spend $1000 every month then 50 percent of it will be $500

You will be sending $1000 invoice for the first month and then it will be $500 every month. If the budget goes up your monthly invoice will go up too.

The percentage could be different for different clients.

Thanks

Please pm with the keywords you target and your url, I think this time the keyword your are aiming is more competitive than what you usually targeted, you have to build a real backlinks strategy! 
[removed]
You can get a certain number of emails per month free with mailjet dot com. Hope that helps. 
Mailchimp is free as long as your subscribers are not too many, you can have different styles of mails when browsing the templates section.
MailChimp is free up to a certain number of subscribers. You can also search for "MailChimp alternatives" if that doesn't suit you.
Just out interest, why would you need so many variants if you're using marketing automation? Surely you can build a single template and pull in the various products at point of send?

...or even at point of open based on tracked behaviour.
is it a push or pull campaign?  I wouldn't want 4-5 emails from some company that has scraped my contact from a database or linked in.  one email should be enough and if Im interested (ie: pass the 1st CTA, then email me the next 2-3 emails).

&#x200B;



\- text option of email




\- optimised for most clients

You can practice using real clients' GA accounts. I'd go through and make inferences from the data (this is assuming you've already done a solid discovery/ROI/custom call with the client to find out what the KPIs & growth they want to see). Then based on what we know about consumer behavior, industry metrics, local market data, etc. bring them info that matters to them to make recommendations to continually optimize their strategy... I'm not sure there is a course for that, it seems like it would be more of a critical thinking skill and is based on having a good grasp on what the client wants to do. There are so many metrics you can pull but to analyze every single thing is boring and exhaustive and won't necessarily address what the true goal is for your clients. There are probably articles online somewhere regardless where you can find tips and tricks. Good luck! Please excuse my brevity, I'm on mobile.
Yoast is a great beginner friendly SEO plug-in for Wordpress 

Check YouTube, Udemy etc start digging in.


It's goes without saying to be very detailed oriented when doing your keyword research.

But as you're learning SEO for your website, I would also think about repurposing your web content into video and using what you learn in regards to SEO towards YouTube.

YouTube is the second largest search engine on the planet and I'm noticing an upwards climb especially with voice search becoming more and more popular. I.E people asking Google home for something and it playing a video...


Just food for thought on your Digital Marketing journey friend!
There is a google course on SEO/SEM, try looking for some insights there
This might help you out as it focuses on the basics & Advanced SEO. All the best :)

 [https://moz.com/learn/seo](https://moz.com/learn/seo) 

Backlink from high-authority sites will give you that backlink diversity for SEO and will give you a nice link juice.

If you don't know where to start, check out RankdSEO.com backlink database. There are step-by-step guides with images on how to build backlinks on hundreds of websites.
Promo & bitable but none of these stock sites come close to professional video production and if you are working for a bigger company amateur stock videos like these can actually deteriorate the brand's image but for small businesses it's a great option to get out there!
Wave.video
And
powtoon
Headliner
Pixteller is just like Canva, but you can animate any element in the design. Similar to how Adobe Flash was back in the days.
Typito




Three, create a campaign with transparent budgets and goals.

Four, launch, test, learn. repeat and be prepared to report. 


Be special. 
Online ordering, kick ass service.


Retarget ads and google ads to get initial burst of business, along with high profile catering. 


Get a basic, but super-dialed website. Ensure Online directory listings are pristine. Aggregate lots of amazing Google reviews. Ratargeting ads on Google and FB/IG.

Curveball: Facebook events every weekend.


It will also make a bigger contribution to your CV than some certificate.


If you want to be a media manager, start looking into getting Google Adwords certified. They have lots of good resources and the certificate program is just a good structure.

I like Rick Mulready's podcast The Art of Paid Traffic. He offers guides and coaching, but you can start only by listening to the episodes. Search the archive for older episodes. Some are good stories by successful and not so successful digital marketeers. If you are just starting out, you will learn a lot from both. Also a big part of digital marketing is creativity. Try to find inspiration on copy, photography and design. Check the portfolio of successful digital marketing agencies like Wieden + Kennedy. 
Digital Marketing is not the domain for the tech only. It is a myth. Anyone with passion for creativity, and numbers can learn Digital Marketing. Concourse, it takes time to perfect any art.
Courses, like those from Udemy or somewhere else, are useful, But until you implement the theory, you will not have a command over the subject.
Do you have a degree or experience?

IMHO, you’re kind of in a tough spot. I’d suggest going through the process and then asking them how they define success in the role. Once they define it, ask if you have demonstrated your path to achieving that success and what the value of that is to the company.

I've been in your exact position, eerily - also int he NW Suburb of Chicago. They gave me $34,000 at an eight-person company, I was their first marketing hire. $34-36 is realistic.

1. Use Moz's DA as a reporting/success factor in your reports, which you probably shouldn't be doing anyways.
2. Are in the business of building/flipping domains/link services for (likely blackhat) SEO purposes, and use mid-high DA to get sales.

Google does not care about your DA score, and you'll see no changes on your site or rankings.
What have you tried already?
You’re asking specifically about improving the website positioning on search results? Or about the whole strategy?

If it’s the former, here’s some low hanging fruit you want to take care of at the minimum. To begin with, focus on quality of content for the topics and keywords you want to rank well for. And confirm Google has site indexed (crawled) your site.
Web development and mobile development services are extremely competitive. Is it a brand new website or did you do a redesign? If it is a brand new site, it takes a while for your site to earn Google and other search engines' trust.  I normally recommend my clients to consider paid search (if they have the budget) to generate traffic while we/they continue to create the content to generate organic traffic, interest, engagement, authority ... 

&#x200B;

It will be important for you to create some type of a content strategy/plan - consider doing video, case study, whitepaper, Q&A or FAQ ... a lot of people do type of specific questions. Talk to the sales team and see what type of questions they get asked the most ... make a blog post or article about it.

&#x200B;

Go into Google Editor and go to Keywords and Targeting > Mobile App Categories, Negatives. Select "Add Negative Mobile App Category".  Select All Apps > OK 
Honestly GDN inventory isn't great and pretty sure there is more fraud/bots there.

3) set a conversion pixel on site, ideally on the next step of the user journey to track and engaged visit, a conversion can be anything you want to optimise towards more valid users on a CPA model, it doesn't have to be a purchase. 

You answered your own question. Do internships.
Are you trying to do a edm campaign or are your normal emails ending up in people’s junk folders?
What size is the list you’re sending to? 
Yeah optimise your subject line to be less spammy. Also create a mailshot with a high HTML to image ratio.  And more stuff I can’t remember right now.
I've had similar problems reaching peoples inbox before with gmail. Even some emails i've sent to my friends they went to junk lol. When I made a google business email I noticed my emails do hit the inbox 99% of the time.  I realize your not using a mailing list program but, there is software you can use that are optimized to land in the inbox that I've had great results with in the past. I used Market Hero but, Klayivo is even better.
Likely a domain trust issue. Unless you have taken steps to make your domain you send from trusted, you are likely to be seen as spam by many providers. In the last couple of years this has become more important.

Also, you could be blacklisted. Check MX Toolbox to see 
Look into creating a custom audience to re-target the people who engaged with your ad but didn’t convert. Plenty of how-to’s on google and YouTube 
You can use the same ads in a different campaign - in this way you will retain all the social proof (likes, comments, shares, etc).  



&#x200B;

On a similar note, you should be A/B testing. Sure your sales were good, but you can make them even better month over month by running multiple ads with different pictures, different copy, etc. and just looking at which are converting best. Then you can shift the budget towards the better-performing ads and/or just remove the crappier ones.

&#x200B;

Make use of the data!!
Sounds like tawk.to
I use Zopim/zendesk chat, which does all of this. There are numerous competitors that have similar functionality as well.

What would set yours apart?
I believe zopim/zendesk and intercom (more recently) have this space pretty well covered.  Not that there isn't room for a new player in the space, but these systems are *very* well established and heavily used across just about any industry you can imagine.  I'd put some serious planning into what would differentiate you from these systems otherwise it'll be hard to capture any of the market.
You have it correct.

CTR = Clicks/Impressions, represented as a percentage.

So 20,000/1,000,000 = 2%.

Your conversion rate will be measured as: sign-ups/clicks through to website, represented as a percentage. 

For instance: 800/20,000 = 4%.

Another metric to look at would be your eCPA, or cost per acquisition. 

If you outlay $40,000 on a campaign and have 800 sign-ups, that's an eCPA of $50
How much is a good ctr? 1.5%m
We use Asana for project management. 
We use Trello, it's really nice and user friendly.
Basecamp! Love it 

&#x200B;

What type of website/content are you trying to drive traffic to? What strategies are you currently using? Happy to give some personal insight with some more info! Feel free to PM if you'd prefer

Digital marketer for about 10+ years now. It will be required for social media/content creation roles but no one really cares when you get into technical and analytics. I've avoided social media for about 5 years now for multiple reasons.
you can be on social media but not on social media. 
apart from wasting your time, social media can be a great tool to learn new stuff. 
i guesss its will power

I don't use it personally - I spend enough time on it professionally.




I flat out refuse to be part of the validation generation.



Social media sucks, it always has and always will.


PS - if you think social credits, like in China, won't be coming to a country near, you're very, very mistaken.

Not tweeted enough about plastic pollution - no free train fares for you! (This is your future)

Deleting social media accounts will badly affect your business if you have a large follower base. This is because these will be your customers you trust you the most and have played a vital role in your branding. So, it's not good to delete your social media accounts.
It's very important that you create granular, tightly-themed ad groups. This will lead to more relevant ad copy which increases click-through rate, which increases quality score, which decreases cost-per-click. It also can improve conversion rate if you land users on more relevant pages and provide context to their search in your ads.

Google looks incredibly closely at your ad groups when they’re deciding who sees your ad and when. By creating specific, focused ad groups (even if it means making a lot more of them), you’ll be able to create significantly more effective ad groups. This will help your campaigns both immediately and long-term by showing highly targeted messaging to specific niches of people, giving them exactly what they’re actively searching for.
Used to be in your position hah, old times :). Just emailing, inbox their fanpages, searching for internship recruitment announcements etc...
Check out workinstartups.com 

Loads of opportunities.
Make sure to involve *key* stakeholders who will rely on this platform for metrics, and reporting to ensure that everyone is 100% on the same page regarding how this will benefit them. 


Often, if you're not the only one using the platform, you will find that buy-in can be low if it's not configured in a way that benefits the majority of those using it. This can be a tricky and frankly annoying process, but it absolutely has to be done. Make sure to take notes and get details in writing.

Also, think ahead about some features which may not be of immediate use, but may be important down the road - such as integrations with other software.

If this is a stand alone MA platform that sits on top of an existing CRM, make sure the data in your CRM is 1. compatible with how the MA platform accept it and 2. is clean. If you are getting a MA/CRM combo make sure the CRM scales well with your needs, and you can afford it down the road once you have a larger database. If you do not prepare well, unexpected scaling costs can absolutely ruin your MA/CRM ambitions.

If you are hiring a trainer to demo the platform for your team, especially any customizations - make sure *to record this* and store it in a place you can easily access later if you forget how something works.

Create a simple process doc you can distribute to new employees who will use the platform. Remember that even if they used this same platform elsewhere, your process may be different than what they were used to and how they were taught.


Once deployed, make sure to positively reinforce staff who use it actively *and* correctly, even with financial incentives.
Honestly, I really enjoy Neil Patel's podcast and blog content. He's ahead of the curve on trends and strategies. Learned alot from his stuff and still listen in today. The podcasts are shorter too, like 10- 15 min nuggets. 


For Adwords I like Perry Marshall's books:

*Ultimate Guide to Adwords* is great



As for writing the ads I liked rhe Ray Edwards book:  
*Writing Copy That Sells*   


Finally for the logic coming after the adwords ad I liked:

  
*DotCom Secrets* by Russell Brunson.  

Ive listened to the Paid search podcast a few times and found it useful.
I have the same question too
Perpetual Traffic is a pretty good podcast for paid Facebook strategies 
Advanced Google Adwords - Bead Geddes
Optimize title and keyword of content and video. 

 You could also play around with increasing your bids for those groups and see if that helps with volume. 

There are lots of factors, it might be worth chatting with the Google support team as well so they can take a closer look. 
You didn't mention which Social Network.

&#x200B;

In case of Twitter & Instagram they matter fr. If you use the right hashtag your post really can go viral. For example I posted on Instagram at a time where most of my followers were online (you can check it under insights). This resulted in a lot of engagement on my post and I landed on the Top-List in the hashtag section. Got a ton of engagement and it was my best engaging post ever (+8k likes, +150 follows)
Facebook: No.

Instagram: Yes. But make sure they're relevant to you and your company/service/product. Don't over saturate your posts with random hashtags.

Twitter: Meh, sure. But if you're trying to get conversions from Twitter, good luck. Ha..

LinkedIn: Who knows.
 There are a few key tips that you need to implement to execute an effective Amazon SEO strategy, but first you need to understand Amazon’s A9 algorithm. 

**What is Amazon’s A9 algorithm?** 


**Amazon SEO Strategy** 

Find those keywords that are successful and converting into sales.

Use those targeted keywords with specific product description in the listing

Use bullet points  in the product description, features, and etc. 

According to Amazon, product title should include Brand, Product Name, Material, Quantity, Color 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;
It totally depends on your product. Some basic strategies are multiple listing of your products, getting the customer to write a positive review by gifting him something or future discount code included in the packaged box and running sponsored ads on the keywords of your competitions.

Give affiliate links to bloggers, influencer marketers on social media, etc
There was a podcast that broke this down like EVERYTHING taxes, how and what state you should create your LLC it's here at thesweatystartup.com 
Yeah, it's really not that expensive. Your state should have a place to register a new company. Set up a new LLC, it costs about $150. If you're running a business you should 100% do this as it protects you personally.

Look in to business insurance, it's about $700-800/year as well for added protection though not necessary. Some clients do require it though.

Setting up an LLC has many added tax benefits in what you can write off as legitimate business expenses. In fact, setting up the LLC is one of them.

Past that - poof, you're a business. Good luck.
Thanks!
You can’t use things that don’t belong to you to make money if you don’t have expressed permission to use them. 

If a photo doesn’t belong to you, and you use it to make money in the US or EU, you are breaking the law. 

Nothing’s free budddy boyyyy pay up 
I had a call with Google Ads Manager from Google. He suggested me don't choose any goal for my ads campaings.  Brand awareness & reach works like sharing your brand with a new audience. It has fewer clicks than leads goal.
Banner ads are performing good and can be tried for awareness and reach. Rest you need to analyse and optimise 😀

Is your company small? If yes then you might have budget issues. 


You also need to make sure your campaigns are optimized (remove or pause irrelevant ads, update the negative keywords)

The best part is you can quickly reach people and promote your value. And it is probably rewarding to see your ads getting clicked.
It depends on how many posts the hashtags have. If #beautifuldestinations has 4 million and the singular version has 500k then use the singular. The more popular the tag the less likely your post is going to be seen. If they’re both below 1 million then you could use both! 
I remember using 20-30 Hastags in one Instagram post as it give more reached
I'd say that depends on the volume of the hashtag.

If they are your main keywords, do both. If they are partly relevant pick one of them (choose the one with the biggest numbers). If you don't have other relevant hashtags to replace one of them then do both.
Singular and plural hashtags of the same keyword represent different groups. So, first ensure which one you want to target.   
Remember the more hashtags you use, the more chances are that your post is viewed by others.
I know this isn't the question you're asking, but hashtags aren't going to significantly move the meter in terms of growing your reach. In other words, focusing on your paid strategy will make a much bigger impact than the difference between singular and plural hashtags.
I think it depends on your pricing strategy.

\- If your pricing is lower than other players in the market with a clear value, sending the course fee over chat seems fine.

\- If it is more expensive/premium, and you need time to explain the value of the course, I'd better do it as your boss does.
To be frank, either way, the clients are going to find out anyway. Don't forget, we're living in the age of digitalization where clients can dig tons of information via the internet. Or, your competitor could be smart enough to send an intelligence to scout for your company's core pricing on each course eventually exposing/revealing it in the latter. Bad move, and what if the clients are about to sign up and the last checklist is the "Course Fee"? Nothing is bad, the only bad thing a business/company would face is if they're sharing their core competencies/competitive advantage to a client, that is a risky move.
No prefer to make your email system :) and sent your products via email
How broad or narrow you target will vary based on the vertical and your budget.

Obviously narrow makes your budget go further but you cap your reach. 
Lately, larger, broader audiences tend to work great ( as long as you have sufficient conversion data associated with your pixel!)
I think we can all agree that there needs to be some level of targeting though, no? I wouldn't expect much to come from any product or service being marketed worldwide, to all languages, all ages, etc.

Depends. It isn't easy to make an easy decision here. But rule of a thumb. Broader audience for awareness campaigns, more narrow audience if going to the bottom of the funnel. But we sometimes run a conversion or catalog sales ads against broad audience.

Tough one.
Listening
Learn premiere or aftereffects... then you will be able to do so much more..
If they will let you put a tab on the site as they say, I would setup a GA profile for the bank and just have the payment confirmation page be your conversions for a goal. If you setup cross domain tracking across both sites, you can track users going from your client's site to the bank and then back to your site. You can also build your remarketing lists of the site.

If the bank is ok with letting you do GTM code, then that would be better then above but depends on how much and what code the bank actually lets you put on the site.

&#x200B;

If you can look at something like a helper table in excel to merger the mailchimp list and current sales/stock database together. Seems like both has information that can be useful including when the last time someone ordered. If you knew the last time someone ordered, you could follow up and turn an in-active customer into a customer. One thing you need to figure out is what your source of truth will be for data moving forward. Seems like you may need to pull from the current sales/stock database and use that data to update your own database.
If you’re planning to do any kind of affiliate marketing then Mailchimp isn’t the right platform. Aweber is open to that, but outdated and buggy. ActiveCampajgn is good, but might stop you sending emails if you go over 1% spam complaints. 

What's your freshest list of recent customers and how many names do you have?


If your not too familiar with excel and how mail merge woks you can always hire someone to do it for you.
you should take the move.   
If you don't like it, starting figuring out what a better alternative would be like, maybe you can find spaces to move within. or atleast gain experience that will definitely help you in future.   


I know some strong % of podcast listeners make 75k or more per year so targeting slightly more affluent interests may help? 
I spent years on a MacBook Air 13’


You can buy a bigger separate display to have it at home,  I recently bought 23 inch display and cannot go back 

I run everything off of a pixel book connected to a monitor or my 65 inch TV at home. Granted, I am not using Photoshop. Will not the main version anyway
It shows up under quick creation (when you’re creating a new campaign) right under where you select the campaign objective. If you’re still not seeing it, you can go to guided campaign creation and select your objective, it should show up just under the campaign name box. It’ll say “Create Split Test” and you can just switch it on there to test creative, placement, audience, and delivery optimization strategies. Unfortunately it does not seem to allow for split testing under the store visits objective (if that’s what you’re using). Hope this helps! 
I just read Digiday and MediaPost once a day to know what's going on
I just joined a paid forum, Coywolf marketing.  It was just started by Jon Henshaw, founder of Raven Tools. A lot of heavy hitters are active in there. 
I’m not an expert, but I do know that you can collaborate with gaming companies to put your “product” in the game you want.. like Benz tire in Mario Cart, and branded clothing in dress-up games. 
Teaching my sales staff that CTR is a trash metric and campaigns shouldn’t be judged by it solely 
my digital marketing new year's resolution will be to master On page and off page SEO perfectly this year and then move on to pay per click. 
I'm planning on doing SEO and ORM video tutorials.
To learn HTML5 and CSS. Would be great for my work. And it's a way how to keep job in case automation will pick up and turn the job market into mess. 
To watch more Gary V and Tai Lopez
They don't care. You need to be important for them to care. 
I have a client that *used* to do this, and I talked them out of doing it regularly (and instead got them to do their own promotions).   


Their thinking was this. (note they sell group classes, not products)

3. They also hoped to get people who wouldn't normally thinking about purchasing their services (ie access to Groupon's audience). 






&#x200B;

It's about *sales*.
Groupon has a well established affiliate program. Is the website in question actually just an affiliate?
[deleted]

1. Make your website navigation smooth and friendly.
2. Increase your website speed (should be above 85)
3. Website should be mobile friendly.
4. Generate Sitemap for your website.
5 Now optimize your all products - Include best keywords in Products title and description.
6. Use alt tag in product images.
7. It will be best if you can also rewrite your main product pages URL based on target keyword.
8. Implement schema.
9. Implement pagination tag on your blog page.
10. Use breadcrumb
11. Link all main social media channels with your website.
 

See what your competitors are doing.
If product demands content write short blogs.
Your main focus must be on product title.
Absolutely include a blog.  Alt tags are worth doing for SEO. Any other questions?
you might want to add a chat widget to you WP site to provide instant access to questions about product as well
Does the 3rd party ticketing system allow discount codes? This may be one way to track it
Will you be able to get these ticketing sites to insert Facebook Pixels to their thank-you/order confirmation page? That would help you to track the conversions which were a result of your ads.
Im actuallly writing an article on this right now, but you have to start selling tickets on your website if you want to quantify the worth of each paid event. 
Following
Scrapy or BeautifulSoup in python can do this for you. Of course you'd have to find a programmer but it can be done
 

Definitely a paid service though.


Fb is good place for b2b segment imo. For b2c, instagram is winning the battle. 
Do a free test for one. Show them the analytics, see how many converted into sales, and use that as a case study for future clients.
Sometimes I think agencies or owners who are running the ads of ads manager won’t have the accounts connected correctly to the page so it won’t appear in info & ads all the time.

Also if they are just boosting post for instagram and don’t have the two linked by business manager it won’t necessarily appear either.
The agency or the person who is handling the ads will not be using the the official page of that business, most of the time they will be creating a new page or some other page to run the ads.

This works in many ways and one is many will think it has recommended post in the feed.   
It's still very underpriced. Once people realize its power, the prices are gonna go up in the sky lol. Rather wondering why people aren't using them, we should squeeze as much as we can.

I also think the ad-setup is much easier on the Instagram app if you aren't familiar with online advertising, meaning smaller outfits can setup ads on the go much more easier. 
[removed]
I will answer your question and also hijack your post. The answer is yes. 

My question is that I am running ads on stories directly through Instagram rather than ads manager because I'm on a time crunch and its faster. 



I live in NYC and the job opportunities here are endless. I relocated here after I graduated and it was the best decision I've ever made for  my career.
Atlanta is huge. Tons of fortune companies, tons of agencies big and small, cheap(er) cost of living. Would recommend. 
I'm in the same boat as you. Would love to hear from everyone.



-You can try posting regularly on Instagram
-Follow all the leading electronic cigarette Pages
- Also follow the fans of these pages, who are users of electronic cigarettes
-Identify relevant hashtags and try using them in all your posts. This will help improve organic visibility.

Once you gain some traction, then you can approach an influencer who will help you amplify the reach.

Hi!! I would agree with a couple of guys who have suggested 'Influencer Marketing" as one of the methods of promoting silicone phone mount. 

I would also suggest promoting your piece of article on Pinterest by creating eye-catching images and educating the audience through your blog.


Also look for similar queries on a platform called "Quora" where you'll get more suggestions!!

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

All the best, buddy!!!
  

You can create videos of your product and open a YouTube channel and advertise it also check for Instagram advertisement. Use relevant hashtags. Also ask your followers to share your posts.
Nicefroyo said it, you might be one of those people with the gift of the gab who can sell anything to anyone.


••If you pitch a 50/50 split in profit they make they all say yes.  Realtors are always teaming up with other agents and sharing sale. 

•Average can be 20-50 per closing in your pocket. 
Gather some customer reviews and use those as leverage.  
If your leads are of the caliber you claim why don’t you simply sell the leads?
Either will fail if you don't have a clear purpose in mind.
Perhaps a newsletter synopsis of top blog posts of the months a showcase so user can decide if want to dive deeper. 
  

Newsletter is kind of bulletin you send to your clients via an email. In blog you can express your opinions, write anything you feel about. Potential idea of blog or newsletter is reach people. The best way you could do is write a blog and send snippets or a summary of the blog like a teaser in your newsletter.
You can start sending newsletters to your clients but you need to have a blog compulsorily. A blog describes the topics that are related to your niche while a newsletter will consists of any announcement or a medium that helps to communicate things that are timely. With a blog you can even explain all the details in your niche as well as write articles about trending topics. Additionally, it also helps you in SEO and boosts your rankings in the search engine.
Get a sales enablement platform like Salesloft (if you have Salesforce), Hubspot Sales (if you have Hubspot), or whatever tools connect with your CRM. They will make the calls through the browser and the platform will record everything, with the tools to document which calls connected, which went to voicemail, which were wrong numbers etc. 

Thank you!
What kind of content are you working with and who are you targetting them? What are your goals? Are you remarketing/retargeting users who have visited your site? What's the benefit of a free sign-up versus someone who doesn't for your site?


Sounds like they want a script that will pull down the HTML and identify all the open graph tags. Should just be some string manipulation once you get the HTML pulled down. 

What is your actual task - you say create scripts for it - scripts to do what exactly?
They are asking you for the terms that could trigger knowledge graph but related to your startups industry. Mostly they will be asking to create a script to manage different kinds of these works to store, review and take decisions on that. 
Sounds like he just wants the site indexed with Google so that the company has a knowledge graph on search results (which is the box on the right with all comoany info). Do that through Google Search Console.
There are TONS of CRMs for different industries. Most companies I've worked with, have their own custom built CRM to match their needs. 



I like to dig in and learn by trying, so if you're anything like me, then that is a good option. 

If you have any questions, feel free to ask. I also built my own CRM from the ground up, programmed both front and back end for my personal agency clients. 
You can go for Google Academy and earn the certifications.

Also read up about programmatic advertising. 

Hi srb,


So, I suggest you to research about weed groups and communities, to learn more about that persona.


Good luck dude
You can probably still track all of the goals by opening up the url tracking a bit. 

E.g. if the user lands on “/order-thank-you/123456789”, count any url that starts with “order/thank/you”. 

But just make sure that’s what you want and that there aren’t any other conversions/goals going to that page or your numbers will be really skewed. 
The key aspect of outsourcing for my team has been workload alleviation. You pay your internal people well for their expertise, so make sure they are working on the most technical, specialized tasks.


Outsourcing is a necessity to keep costs low. However outsourcing has its own challenges -- mainly finding your core group of professionals who you trust to complete the job.


I've never worked with an entire outsourced agency, but individuals (or small teams). Have had plenty of problems, but there are plenty of excellent pros across the world.

I too did AdWords certifications, then I learnt the usage using YouTube videos. I advertised my own website and then I started providing Adwords services to people from fiverr
if you have finished the certification then you try running some ads. For the first time once you make your adwords account you will get some credit that you can use to learn, to run adwords campaign and analyse campaigns.
I had to work as a salesman for a couple years before I got to start running accounts. Worked out fine, I’d recommend it as a path.
Buy things cheap. Sell it for markup. Prove u can in job interviews with quants to back up your claims. 
It’s all real time so any changes likes and shares are reflected at any moment someone sees it
I recommend just playing around. They also have downloadable guides to the toolkits for different purposes. Semrush is a beast though, and it does really just take time and a lot of use to figure out everything it can do. 
Their guides are good. There are scheduled webinars. If you have the paid subscription, there is an SEMrush Facebook group.  Also the r/SEMrush is good to ask questions.

Best to be honest and say, 'Hey, I think I'll be good at this and would love to add it to my portfolio.'

No-one can fault you for that approach!

Work for free. Tell people how you're good enough to work for them (how you've learned the skills that you have) and how you working for them can benefit both of you.


\--by defining who your market - customers - are.
Do a swot analysis, build from there, highlight your strengths, improve your weaknesses, attack your opportunities, and understand your threats..
Determine what you are good at! What can you offer, that you can charge for? Do you have testimonials?

&#x200B;

Market yourself by offering a solution to a problem that people need help fixing. This can be executed many ways.

Also look into Google Pay. I recently use that for personal use and it's great. I sent $2k and it was instant and no fees.
I write in my contracts that third-party payment fees are the responsibility of the client. I also include this on every invoice. If I have a client that routinely forgets this, I add a note to the bottom of the invoice that calculates the PayPal total. If I have a good relationship with the client and they forget, I just add the unpaid amount (aka the fee) to the next invoice.


If your client is paying by credit card that ain’t bad. If they are willing to pay by e-check there are a few options around 1%. Quick books and many banks will do it for free through their web portal. Depends on your relationship with the client.
Try Google Pay and Stripe.
Use Stripe combined with some pretty freelancer invoicing software. 

“Blah blah blah just use this free invoice thing” <- Don’t listen to those people. 



What's the job spec? Can you be more specific? Does it require knowledge of SQL and Google Big Query for example. 
You want to go to Ads Academy and get certified and also take some Facebook Ads and LinkedIn Ads courses from Udemy.
My recommendation would be to prepare it. Ask yourself the questions they're going to ask you to know the answers before you go to the interview. Make sure to let them know you're a proactive person, also tell them you always plan everything. Tell them you must know why you're doing the Ads in order to get the best return. Only understanding the global strategy you might be 100% accurate with your ads. 

Tell them something personal at the beginning, that usually makes them feel empathy for you. Always listen what they are really looking for in order to give them answers that match with their desires. Let them know you're a team player. Also, make sure they understand you consider learning as part of the process. Marketing changes so fast that you must be learning every day.

About the learning material, as vivianso83 said: fb ads, linkedin ads courses. 

If they are a smaller business chances are they won't be using DoubleClick. It's expensive!

Either LLC or s Corp is fine. If you get above $60k  or so annual profit electing to be taxed as an S Corp can help lower your tax bill due to lowering payroll tax liability on owner compensation. ***not legal or tax advice, I am not a legal or tax professional, do your own research, hire a pro blah blah blah***

I think most people use quickbooks 

Also, never front the money for a clients campaign. 
Yikes, man.. I think you need to slow down. If you’re asking very, VERY basic questions on how to start a marketing agency, you might be moving too quickly. You’ll quickly crash and burn through all your money.. Take your time and learn more before taking that leap. Not being rude, just honest! 
I use excel to keep track expenses.
I'm excel freak
Yeah absolutely. Do you have wins or client reports you can share? In my experience, personal projects (or having your own clients) shows more discipline than if you just worked in a role either in-house or at an agency.

I graduated with IT/Comp Sci and applied for my first Digital Media Coordinator role after I graduated, and I ultimately got the job because I talked a lot about some of my personal projects and really impressed the hiring manager.

For you, it will be a similar situation. Additionally, coming from a consulting background you have additional skills (communication, account management, reporting) that are all very valuable.

You’ll get the most out of organic SEO. Provide useful information about kicking the drugs your center specializes in. Blog posts about the latest developments. 

There are probably a lot of opportunities for guest blog posts from doctors and staff there. 

What happens once someone clicks on an ad - whats the journey? Are you testing landing pages? 

How many pages/session? Are visitors hanging around or are they leaving quickly?


&#x200B;

A conversion will mean different things at different stages of the journey and on different platforms or even web pages, all comes back to whats important to you and what your goals are. 
Yikes. Google, Facebook, etc have really restricted the ability of rehab centers to use PPC ads. Bing doesn't have the same level of restrictions, but isn't as popular as Google. 

SEO and targeted content curation is really your best bet. 
use social or maybe a mobile game to create a good old dopamine feedback loop associated with the brand. 
[removed]
I got one word for you "GMass"
Mail chimp
Create the profile of your typical user (persona/s), what are their likes, needs, things that (supposedly) drive action for them and write content around it. 


Check your backlinks to the pages, some of the publications have related contents that you can explore and create content. 

Check the themes your competitors are using and generate ideas from it, specially for “gaps”. 


Check quora and alike for questions and responses for themes related to your niche. 


Follow the publications your audience follows, you’ll find articles, comments and even videos that you can give your own twist. 
Digital marketing landscape is changing continously. So if you want to stay ahead of the trend and earn good money then you need to keep adding new skills. For ex - video marketing will be huge in next 5 years because of high speed internet in dofferent parts of the world. So try learning that.

As of jobs, since you already have claimed to be creative, look for firms that focus on artistic side of things. And have something to back up your claim. It will help you. Either way my best wishes man
[deleted]
IMHO the best way to learn is through experience. Since you got some basics now, you can try applying for some jobs.
What position are you looking to get is this a technical position or what.
Just A/B test different times and monitor the number of email submissions and 'No Thanks' clicks for each. Also split the results into desktop and mobile.
Definitely wait a few seconds or until they scroll the page. An immediate pop-up is a sure way to make people drop-off.
Do what makes sense for your brand. Food is great on visual platforms like instagram. B2b? Go for LinkedIn. Don’t spread yourself too thin, and do what makes sense for the particular business. If that means just one or two platforms, do it.
I do recommend a placement whitelist for most advertisers. Yes, it will limit your impressions, but how much value are you getting out of having ads on a channel of an 8 year old playing minecraft? If I was running a campaign with the goal you outlined (which I wouldn't be because direct response is the best kind of advertising and awareness is a waste of money in 90+% of cases IMHO) but if I was, I'd look at active lifestyle stuff. Snowboarding, running, martial arts, rock climbing, stuff that people who do it get hurt a lot. If you dig up a good amount of those types of channels you should be able to buy some inventory, assuming your geo target isn't super small.
I recommend whitelisting with placement targeting. So you placement target specific YouTube channels. Probably the most likely video campaigns I’ve seen to be ROI positive are for online learning.
Have you tried different domain or sub domain for a landing page, doing this may help you in giving a good SEO scores as well less proper landing page structures As per your requirements
Have u analysis the content of the success video. What kind of pain points or hesitation is the video addressing. What kind of fun or interesting factors about the video. And try to replicate the recipe. 

As much as it is important to market the video, the content that the video contain play a very important role in results too

By the way, you shall network with other YouTuber. And cross promote. And perhaps you can craft an email to existing customers about your new video release.

I'm sure they got some opt in from previous videos and if the two video categories are the same, perhaps they will be delighted with more content. 

You probably also want to ensure this video lead to a call to action that hopefully get viewer becomes subscriber or get on mailing list or even give u a sale.

Studying old video email opening rate may give u some hint who to retarget too
I would be interested
Chatbot. Future. Large audience. Large outreach. 
You can try uploading a campaign in youtube, its pretty easy. There you can get a taste of the marketing involved.  Other than that, visit a bunch of different sites and get retargeted to see how different advertisers use video. 
Why are you needing their credit card details to register online?!

Seems like a great big conversion killer to be honest...
So your relevancy score is 8, you have 77 reactions and 16 shares. All this for a total of $20 over four days? I would scale it up for a few more days. Both yourrelevancy score and interactions indicate good targeting and messaging.
Use the Facebook Audiences Insight to build a customer persona and test your theories.  


Target Lookalike Audiences of the loyal customers.
Budget / Rate = Impressions

Impressions / Rate = Budget

Budget * Rate = Impressions




**I am taking marketing formulas as Marketing Strategies**

Less relevant clicks are better than more traffic.


Start as soon as a trend begins (this will help your brand perform better and have a good rank in search results).

I plan my strategy using **Conversion Rate**,   CR =Total number of conversions ÷ Total number of clicks × 100

I like to use Sostac and STP for planning 

 I love to hear what other digital marketers use and think it’s great for beginners 👍

$1000 / 6.0 CPM = 6,000 impressions

6000 impressions / 6.0 CPM = $1000

$1000 * 6.0 CPM = 6000 impressions

Then with a CTR benchmark of .08% we can expect 4.8 clicks to a client website.

I would suggest you do all the work and if need be, outsource your work to some professional.

All the best :)




Just update them and use  the updated feature (in wp) or schema to show recent update date. Creating new links will take more time. If you have not received any Penalty mail than go for the update. can you also tell us you back link strategy for the blog website. tld as well as for the blog page
Don’t. Get an internship or a job. Freelancing can overwhelm you. Financially you have to follow tax law and you should have insurance.  Get a low level job or an internship. That way you are safer  
Why would you want to do that and not just have them add your account as an advertiser or admin to their page?

Hope this helps. 
The most common ways this happens is from Google analytics tag firing twice or an interactive Google analytics event being triggered.

2 tags

Your post is far too ambiguous. There is a gold mine out there but lots of different mines. 

Just keep your head up and keep on top of new trends
i am job
Wow! Thank you so much for detailing your experience and perspective for me! It makes a lot of sense now! I will keep exploring and doing more research, and continuing learning and hopefully I can make the switch!
Here's what I did:

* Ask around in your **own network**. You must know a friend, colleague, aunt, uncle... who has a small business and needs some marketing help. Tell them you want to learn, and always, ALWAYS under promise - over achieve. Ask for a small budget, and just experiment a lot. Maybe you can work on some kind of pay per lead fee or commissions. No risk for them, and it will motivate you to work your ass off.
* Go to **networking events**. Now that you're helping some people you know, get out of your comfortable chair and talk to people. Tell them you're starting out and you already have some projects. People who don't know you, will need some kind of social proof. Show them results: "I helped X achieve X by doing X. And I can probably do the some for your company."
* Get your **own website**. Don't start writing blogs and doing ads for your own business. Focus on achieving results for your clients first. But make sure you have an online presence. People do business on trust. Get a website, and let your clients speak for you. Did they like the results? Did they like how you worked? Ask for testimonials.

Good luck mate!

Tools - I make B2B tools, so finding people for that has been hard. But recently came across UserInterviews and Respondent, both of which have been pretty good here.
There are lot of online certification available online like **google garage, google analytics academy** and many more do a search you will find a good one.

But I also heard good things about Alison Free Diploma in E-Business. Maybe that's what you're looking for.
Overall it's good and shows that it's got an updated look, that said:



And if you can, try offering a 3-month program because in that way, you’d be able to gather significant results. If they are not happy with the results, you can offer a 50% refund or something like that. But if you make them happy, then guaranteed that they’ll continue hiring your services.

Hope this helps. Cheers!

nice work, all the best!
1 you love flaticon.com
2 your site looks a bit like a picture story book for kids
3 no one is going to pay your top fee - hide the price and put a call to action to call you for a quote. $3000 is too much to show on the site.
But yeah. Awesome. You do a lot. Outsourced or all in house? How many clients at a time?
Also how do you plan on getting clients? Specify niche or all?
Was it running on IG as well?
I'm stumped
How long after you boosted did you check the stats? Sometimes it takes a while to sync up, and in some cases it never does LOL Try this: find the post on your page's timeline. You'll see an orange bar at the bottom with a people reached figure. Click on that to open up the post stats. You can also try looking at the performance charts in your ad manager 
PROOF that FB is lying--NOW it shows over 100 less likes AFTER that campaign is already over! WTF!

[https://imgur.com/a/a4DJQIf](https://imgur.com/a/a4DJQIf)
Did you create the post as an ad and have a organic post? 

I went to your page and I cannot see the likes either. 



MBAs are meant to train/qualify people advancing into an excutive possition. Because of this MBAs have more name recognition. There are penty of people in excutive positions that hold an MBA. Those that have one know first hand the hard work & dedication thats required. They might be more confident in hiring an MBA vs a lessor known degree. So an MBA would be good if you wanna

 1. Continue consulting, with a plan to get more clients.
3. Marketing department project management position.

A master's in digital marketing will probably be more focused, so if you wanna advance in specialization thats the way to go. 

1. Continue consulting, with a plan to charge more for your services.

I'd compare the course loads from from several universities. Pick the degree & university based on the course load that most interests you. 

I'm sorta in the same boat, but I decided to get a second bachelors in CS (First was Econ/finance). The plan is to get a masters after I'm finished, so a I'm interested in a the answer to your question too.

If you take an Executive MBA at your regional university you will meet and network with lots of other local business leaders and get well ahead in your career. 


If for some reason their former digital marketing team is holding the account, that's the job of your client to handle. 
For most DM companies, off boarding consists of removing their access to the page, if they haven't done that then it may mean there are still contract obligations that need to be met. 
Start Blogging and SEO.. here are few best tips for blogging [Check here](http://whizfeed.in/all-about-blogs/)
Are you doing all the marketing yourself? Or have a sufficient budget to outsource it?
Google/FB Ads, Data Analytics and UX Design all niche are challenging and scalable. 
It is highly recommended to be very focused and hard working towards niche.
Good Luck for future.
If you need any marketing advice bud message me! Fellow young entrepreneur running my own Marketing Agency.
Depends on what you are selling.

I normally put their site on Serpstat, Ahrefs and SimilarWeb to see traffic, back links and potential competitors. 
Then I search on Linkedin to see what kind of presence they have, if they have a LI page, and their employees, CEO, CMO and sales people.
I then search their social media profiles and if they are local somewhere (ie. a restaurant, garage, etc) I check their Googleplus - see what comments they have, rating etc.

But it all depends on what you are looking for.
GTmetrix for site issues.
SEMRush to see if they are doing Adwords, check their SERPs, and many SEO issues.
Screaming Frog for crawling reports.
I like to see if there are any curses over the business. If they’ve wronged a witch, or have a location on a native burial ground. Those types of things.
Sounds like your trying to do a lot right from the jump. Been around agencies for over 10 years and seen the ones that fail try to do too much at first. Down the road that comes in really handy but at first it pays to be really great at 1 or 2 things. 

Not really sure what your question was but that thought did stick out to me. 
What's really important here is learning new skills. So if you don't know something then go ahead, learn it and get your certification. What future employers and clients are really interested in is results you have achieved for your past clients or employers.
It's nice to have that Google certification icon on your website 
What exactly do you want to analyze and for what purpose?
I'm looking to explore unstructured data in tweets and telegram channel conversations for example.  
The purpose is to gauge sentiment, needs and brand reputation that can feed into content and marketing.  
I'm looking to see whats possible?  What are people using?  
I'm not even sure if I'm naive in my thinking of what can be accomplished or the practical outcomes of using these insights for marketing.  
* Use Instagram stories for behind the scenes and sharing sales promotions/offers
* Search for followers of other local restaraunts (all cuisines) and follow them and like their posts
* Repost Instagram posts from your customers and give them 10&#37; off their next bill as a thank you (incentivising free marketing for future customers)
U/MRGreen_22 gave really good answer there! In addition, try cross posting from your other platforms that have followers I do the occasional Follow us on Instagram posts.

Do some hashtag research to find out which ones will drive organic searching traffic to your posts. 

 Be consistent in your style format. Good luck!
Two big areas: I would definitely look for the top hashtags in your space (use all-hashtag.com) and engage with every relevant post you can. 

I'd do the same thing in your area. If you have a social media tool you can even do both together (people talking about steak or nice lunch in your area). 


[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mVR5OZSgjw](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mVR5OZSgjw)
You'll never get real Unlimited hosting. Hosts might claim that, but then they will throttle you on RAM or something similar so that the more sites you add, the more your performance degrades.

Just like anything else, you pay for what you get.

here's my [referral link](https://www.dreamhost.com/r.cgi?1433422) if you anyone wants to join.
We use [Dreamhost](https://mbsy.co/m87HD) for our wordpress hosting and we love them. Very fast page loads.

Just have to be firm on not taking sales calls / asks.
Godaddy \- and they aren't pushy \- maybe it's you!

If you don't want something then just say no, shout it or hang up.
JustHost is super super cheap and their UI is basic but easy to use. That's what I used to go with for any sort of low-traffic, easy to build WP site.
I am currently looking for the same thing! I’ve researched a few companies like Mention and Awario. They seem good but I haven’t used them myself. Those may be a good place for you to start. Good luck! 
Get Five Stars is a pretty good platform that I’ve been using for rep management for the past year or so.

Or do you mean a site like Trustpilot?
Your best bet is to buy a domain, pick a web host and setup a simple WordPress site and go from there.  Or buy a domain and setup a WordPress.com account and point it to that site.

You should take a little time and learn the back end of things like domains, DNS, hosting.  It will help in the long run.
Instead of "dummy" site, build yourself your own website/portfolio for practice. :) I believe Squarespace is pretty budget friendly. 

Is your friend looking to learn more about how to market a product/service on a website? Or the actually building/coding to launch a website? 
I am a web developer with 10 + years of experience. Currently I am experimenting on vision marketing. It could be possible we can help each other

If you want I can help you by provide  a website for practice. May I know the details about what kind of practice you want to do?

Upwork like anything is just a tool. They're are plenty of solid professionals on there.

Also consider doing a job post on indeed.

There are a few things you can do to help find exactly what you're looking for. 

1. Be as detailed as possible in the job description.


3. Always ask for Proof of skills and past examples.

For FB for example, you should learn enough to screen out newbies. Do they use dynamic creatives? Give an example of best performing lead ad campaign. Give an example of best performing WCA campaign. How do they optimize? How do they target? How do they build custom audiences?

And consider this...

Proven marketers are in high demand and will also be interviewing you. Good marketing isn't a magic pill but just an integral part of sales. How is your back end? Upsells? How do you compare to your competitors? What's your brand position in the market? 



[deleted]
Hey There,

I'm experienced Digital Marketing professional. I have handled all sort of platforms, certainly I can help you in setting up and optimising the campaigns. I have handled US,Australia, NZ, SG clients. I'd suggest contect me on Skype (dhaval_kk90) 

khushme.wordpress.com

Cheers!
Linkedin
This is a great idea. I've written about this in a blog post a while back. Here are the full set of tips:
http://www.deirdrebreakenridge.com/use-these-9-tips-to-become-a-leader-in-digital/

But to answer your question directly, as I've written on tip #5 you should look at awards which will talk about the full spectrum of what a digital marketing campaign looks like. The Sabre Awards just ended, as well as the Webby's and I believe the Anvils. Google any of those and you can see a full spectrum of digital campaigns. 


Lastly, I write about digital marketing on my blog http://todayonsocial.com, feel free to check it out and you can look at the category "LinkedIn" for tips on publishing there. 


I suggest you some tips about it, my bullets full of 7years experience in pro. job life.

You will learn about SEO. 
- Do some research and find some trend and low competition products to sell as an affiliate marketer, go spend some money for them on search engines and social media. You will learn how to optimize your ads and how people react to your ad texs, ad images etc. So you will learn how to sell something to people with optimizing your creatives(ad text, ad images..)
- Create some social media pages and update them, you can pick some trend topics to create an instagram page, try to grow it. And you learn how people react to your posts. 

Dont forget this; marketing is about %90 phsychology. Just start with understanding your native consumers. 

those are my quick reply tips, guys you can ask whatever you want. Best
This might not jive with other people’s points of view but let me give you my perspective. When I’m hiring junior levels I’m looking for two things; intelligence and attitude. If you’re smart and you’re keen and willing to work hard then I want to hire you. Some previous experience is a bonus but it’s a distant third. I can teach you the knowledge but I can’t do much about your smarts or your personality. 

So my advice you be to show those things. Talk about your experience but through the lens of how you solved problems, how you didn’t give up, how you learned from your experiences, how you showed initiative. 

That said, bring some of your work with you to talk about. 
100% agree with Tartan. The other thing I would add is you need to have a POV. What's your philosophy on digital marketing? How would you approach marketing at the company?

Doesn't matter if you're right or wrong, making the attempt shows you're thinking about them and you want to add value. 
What do you want to do? If you want to be a front-end dev, you should learn as many languages as you can to be functional for any situation. If you want to be a digital marketer, you just need to be familiar with this stuff, so JS might be a waste of time. It all depends on your goal.  
Influencer Marketing may be a good strategy at the beginning. 


Then, you'll be able to create a lookalike audience to really scale your business with on target Facebook and Instagram campaigns.


I've done some creative stuff on instagram, and worked with large influencers. If you pm me your products/niche i'll see if I can help. 

Similar to every other aspect of your business, good content and in this case - copywriting - is the key. Like personalizing the bot so that people actually want to chat to him. 

I found [this article](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/give-your-business-voice-7-copywriting-tips-chatbots-pereiaslavtsev/) really helpful. It tells you all the basics how to create an entertaining chatbot. 
[removed]
I think yes. In future messengers will surpass email. 
But I think it depends on your target audience. For example, if your target audience is "old school" email would be work better and give you higher ROI. But if your audience is young - messenger would be better choice. 

I think you need to test both channels for your project and then decide what better in your case
My Opinion as a Youtuber:

Yes and No

Yes:

If you find a subject that nobody creates content for but lots of people search = win.

Example: New Indie game is out, lots of people searching informationg, nobody talked about it. Same for software, products, websitea, news, etc.

Win win. Easy peasy.


NO:



SEO Experts will tell you that. Youtubers will tell you that.

How to get your content suggested? Its very hard for new channels. 

If you can do that you win. Youtube will promote your content. Thats what is happening again and again with content creators.

But when we are talking very very new channela. 0 subs.

Your best bet is doing amazing content (way better than competition) and send external traffic to it. Email list, social share, news site, etc.

Thumbnail and title are also super important to up your CTR and this helps ranking higher, if your content is good.




India. 
Put the google analytics code into the header of the page...
you will have to use tracking in newsletter then you would be get in google analytics campaign. i hope that may be  [Digital Marketing Houston] ( https://www.informaticscommerce.com/digital-marketings/) help you. 
The way would be to add UTM parameters to your links from newsletter. 
You are going to face failures along the way, but these failures are just for your learning. 
Best of Luck 👍🏻
You Have To Passionate About  
Digital Marketing Required Some Skill There Are As Follow 
English Grammar 
Canva , 
How To Use The Tool Of SEO SMM Affiliate Marketing Etc

You Do Not Have To Afraid You Want To Join Some Event Of Digital Marketing 

One Of The Best Event In India 
www.revealinternet.com

Titles can be arbitrary. The most important part for your internship is building experience for your resume, learning common industry terms and the bottom up workflow. 


An easy way is to start your own **blog**. 
Keep in mind “its people that are going to hire you.” No matter how strong your digital skill set might be, your chances of building a digital career are fairly slim if you aren’t willing to get out and network with other people. So **Networking is important!**

There’s plenty of digital marketing methods, actually. You can start with Content marketing, Social media marketing, Email marketing, Pay-per-click advertising (PPC). 


**Enough for the start!**

Like others have said, starting your own blog is always an easy way to go.

Another is if any of your friends have their own business, offer to help them for free. Nothing teaches you better than practical experience.
Start your own blog and use practical givaways to build an email lists of prospects. You can then work your list by building a relationship by offering more tips. You can also promote your business and obtain more customers.
[deleted]
Every Day Digital Marketing Change 
You Have To Learn Daily New Thing In Digital Marketing 

For More Details Visit 
www.revealinternet.com
For social media marketing you should check out https://recurpost.com/.

I know I'm late with this, but hope it helps at least for some future reference. Anyway, as a digital marketing agency, we recommend our clients in the SMB space [Smoove](https://www.smoove.io/).
 
We think it's a great tool for their needs, devoid of the usual 'fluff' you've come to expect from overburdened solutions. It has a free pricing plan which is great to try before you buy as it allows you to try all the features, Its core features include newsletter builder, landing page builder and email automation. Its amazing to see how our clients are benefiting from what marketing automation platform can do for them. 

The cherry on the icing on the cake is the [blog](http://blog.smoove.io/) – it's a real treasure trove of amazing information on all things marketing in the SMB space.

That’s a tricky type of company.

Some things I would try:
• ask the retailers to tag you on Instagram 
•(if possible) package redesign to include Instagram handle on the bottles. 

But Instagram stories is definitely doing magic to tons of companies out there. Show people what they don’t normally see from other companies. 
I've done planning in mindnode then gone back to add open and CTR data. It helps me visualize where to adjust.
•	IMDB listings and advertising
•	Pre-roll video advertising
•	Get a visually compelling & functional sub-site
•	Utilize Google Adwords


You can make it part of your contract terms that the work they do for you is completely white-label (and non-compete), though that often commands a premium if they are unable to showcase it or use it as case studies to their other clients.
I would say first do paid advertising. Organic Reach often takes more time. Like 1 Month for low competition. 

The YouTube video should be 
A. A short version of the best video of the YouTube channel 
B. A short compilation of the best videos.


Also for organic reach. Make public YouTube playlists. Embedd the best videos for the category "videos for toddlers" or something and embed here and there a video from your client. 
(Playlists often rank better because there are so many good rated videos in them and if someone watches the playlist they automatically are watching the clients videos too)

You could also submit his videos or artwork to reddit, 9gag, deviant art and so on for organic reach. 

Important: focus on a specific small niche. It's easier to rank for that and then try to rank for a broader audience. 
What have you tried so far?  I'd be on mommy blogs, join Facebook groups for moms, see if you get an influencer or 2 to endorse your channel. Just the first things that come to mind.   I agree with first comment that paid ads could get the ball rolling better than organic to start.
For free reach i recommend to find related content websites. Post the videos where your audience is. Like relevent reddit or steemit channels, facebook groups and forums.
could also post this in /r/AskMarketing 
[removed]

Hope this all make sense :) good luck!
Hello, I'm a paid marketing and development intern at a nonprofit. Here are a few things I can pass along that have been great for me that might help:

1. I enjoy learning new things. Director of Development taught me how to use Salsa CRM and gives me email marketing projects. 



The only issue that I have as an intern is lack of direction on the creative side in social media. We are getting a marketing a marketing manager next week so that should help. 

TLDR: I like to be given tasks that I can build my resume and my experience with. 

1. On boarding. My internship I didn't have a chair... 
2. Listen to what they are interested in and try to give them work related to that
4. Have fun. 
Can't speak for anyone else, but If I was hiring I would not be bothered reading all that. Someone in marketing should be able to market their self in an elevator pitch, no?
You say you have knowledge in Google Analytics. Do the exams and get yourself yourself certified. 
Hey there,

I am a professional Resume writer. I went through your resume. I'll point out few things to you that would help you out.

Firstly, make sure you have a title under your name starting with a power word. For example, if you're a Marketer, write under your name, "Skilled Marketing Professional".

Secondly, you must write a summary section of yourself. This is the first section that is used to tell WHY you should be hired. Write at least three strong bullet points starting with your hard skills and ending with soft skills. If you need help in that, DM me.


Fourth, have a "Core Strengths and Skills" part. Here write all of your skills. Like you wrote you have knowledge of Google Analytics. You should write it in that section, not here. Same goes for photography skills, Advertising, SEO etc.

Fifth, concise your bullet points and merge them. They are scattered all over the place and it looks way too lengthy. There shouldn't be one-liners. You can write like, "Skillfully implemented SEO for optimal results of products and used Internet Product Research to determine pricing, .... etc.

I hope you get the point.


Good luck. :)



- Have a title under your name
- Have a summary section of yourself telling your hard skills
- Have a Core Strengths section where you tell your DM skills
- Start your experience section with power word, like: Skillfully performed SEO to improve google ranking of the product

If you need to ask anything, you can DM me. :)



